Aruba News

VOL. 4, No. 1

Former Commissary Employee
Now in R.A.F. Receives
Dist. Flying Medal

 

From grinding hamburger to bombing
Hamburg is the recent history .of

Winston Hynam, former sales clerk at
Com-

the meat counter in the Colony

missary. According
to news received
here a short time
ago by his brother,
who works at the
Stars and Stripes
Club, Hynam has
been awarded the

Distinguished Fly-
ing Medal for his
work in the Royal
Air Force.

With service as a
wireless operator,
and as front gunner and bomb aimer,
he displayed, according to the citation,
outstanding coolness and complete dis-
regard for danger in pressing home
attacks on the enemy regardless of
enemy opposition or adverse weather”.

Hynam, whose home is in Barbados,
worked at the Commissary from October,
1938, to April, 1940. He was restless
after war broke out in 1939, frequently
Saying he was going ’’to bomb ---- out
of those Germans”. And he seems to
have carried out his threat.

Aki ’riba nos ta mira Winston Hynam.
kende recientemente a worde presenta
cu un medalla pa su curashi den su tra-
‘bao como miembro di Real Fuerza Aerea
na Inglatera. Hynam, cu a nace na Bar-
‘bados, tawata un empleado na Comisario
fo’i October, 1938 te April, 1940.

BESSSSSSEESSSSSSSS SSSI G88 88 8 59g GG HN

At night pedestrians can see auto
headlights more easily than drivers can
‘see pedestrians — that’s why it’s
important to walk on the left, where the
headlights in your lane approach you
from the front.

SESSSSSSSSSSSISISSSSSGSGSG 8G G89 8999 8899

PUBLISHED BY THE LAGO OIL & TRANSPORT CO., LTD.

JANUARY 8, 1943

Good Food and Good Talk Feature Committee Dinner

  

Shown at top is the speakers’ table, with General Manager L. G. Smith addressing the ban-
queters. Left to richt are E W. Martin, W. C. Colby, R. H. Paul, Mr. Smith, F. S. Campbell,
J. J. Hor gan, and P. Branch. (Al:o at the speakers’ table, but not visible in the picture, were

 

E. A. Rankin, L. J. Brewer, B. Teagle, and E. G. Ollivierre). Below, a view of the banquet hall.

 

Over 90 men sat down to banquet
tables December 12 at the dinner, in the
Lago Heights Dining Hall, extended by
Executive Management for members of
the Employees’ Advisory Committee,
Lago Heights Advisory Committe, and
Management representatives.

The turkey and all the trimmings”
served by the Dining Hall staff was such
that when General Manager L. G. Smith
opened his address he admitted that it
was difficult to speak of wartime priva-

Continued on page 1)

E portretnan aki ’riba a worde tuma
na Lago Heights Dining Hall dia 12 di
December, durante e banquete cu Compa-
nia a ofrece e miembronan di Comité
Consultivo di Empleadonan, Comité
Consultivo di Lago Heights, i Represen-
tantenan di Directiva.

Den e portret di mas ariba nos ta mi-
ra e 90 homber durante e cuminda. E
otro portret un poco mas abao ta mustra
nos e mesa di oradornan, unda oficial-
nan di e Comitenan i oficialnan ejecutivo
di Compania a sinta.
ARUBA ESSO NEWS

Yorigan and Howard Join Aruba Organization

J. J. Horigan

J. J. Horrigan, above, arrived in Aru-
ba December 7 from the Argentine to
assume the position of Assistant General
Manager. He will be responsible for the
Mechanical, Industrial Relations, and
Colony Service departments, while As-
sistant General Manager F. S. Campbell
will supervise the activities of the
Pro and Technical Service depart-
ments. W. C. Colby will continue to act
as adviser and coordinator on matters
involving industrial and public relations
and Colony services.

Mr. Horigan joined the Company in
November, 1920, starting work in the
Engineering department of the Trans-
continental Oil Company at Tampico,
Mexico. From 1921 to 1928 he was in the
General Engineering department, occu-
pied with both office and construction
work. -

In 1928 he was sent to Cuba to super-
vise refinery construction work there,
and the following year was made super-
intendent. He held this position until
May, 1936, when he was transferred to
the Argentine as President of Cia.
Nativa de Petroleos, the Argentine
refining organization.

  
 

Time magazine frequently "scoops”

the two newspapers published in the
refinery, but when one of them scoops
Time, that’s news.

The last issue of Time carried a story
of former Instrument man Cecil Petty’s
rescue in the Pacific three weeks after
it appeared in the ARUBA Esso NEws.

 

 

 

J. M. B. Howard

J. M. B. Howard arrived here
Deecember 19 to assume the position of
Assistant Manager of the Marine depart-
ment.

Mr. Howard’s service with the Com-
pany started in 193 in the Marine
department at Solomon’s Island, Mary-
land. After two months there he went
to sea for four years, serving as deck
officer on various Company tankers.

From 1937 to 1940 he worked in the
New York Marine Office. In the latter
year he was sent to Caripito as Marine
Superintendent, and remained there
until his recent transfer to Aruba.

 

 

 

 

E portret aki ’riba ta mustra nos e dos
miembro nobo di personal ejecutivo cu a
yega Aruba durante luna di December.
Banda robez nos ta mira J. J. Horigan,
Asistente di Gerente General. E a traha
anteriormente na Argentina. Banda dre-
chi nos ta mira J. M. B. Howard, Asis-
tente di Gerente di Departamento di Ma-
rina. Sr. Howard tawata empleaé previa-
mente na Caripito, Venezuela.

 

SCHEDULE OF PAYDAYS

Semi-Monthly Payroll

December 16 — 31 Saturday, January 9
Monthly Payroll
December 1 — 31 Monday, January 11

 

JANUARY 8, 194

NEW BITS

ROUND ABOUT —

Magellan circumnavigated the globe,
and thousands of tourists used to circum.
navigate Manhattan Island in excursio
boats (perhaps still do but it’s doubtful),
but very few persons have set out!
deliberately to circumnavigate Aruba.

General Manager L. G. Smith had that
experience recently, when he made 4
complete circuit of the island’s coastal
waters at night in a fast Naval craft.

He came back with a_ bruised leg,
suffered from the pounding of the boat
at high speed, and with the opinion that
the blackout, which he was checking up
on, is good.

 

   

MUSEUM PIECES —

Topped by a card that says "Hey,
didja see this?”, the Instrument depart-
ment’s museum (see photograph) is an
eye-catching display of educational items:

 

The exhibits are ac-

companied by lettered descriptive cards

and are changed periodically.
Usually the case contains an

made interesting.

actual
some sort of valve or
other piece of equipment. A card will
say "Here's how it works”, and the
display will be a gear barrel and motor
exposed and continuously operating. O1
the actual ruined results of mishandled
or equipment will be on display,

 

cross-section of

tools

Continued on Page 10
JANUARY 28, 1913

Arusha Ess) NEWS

PUBLISHED AT ARUBA, N. W.1., BY THe
LAGO OIL & TRANSPORT CO., LTD.

 

 

| The next issue of the Arusa Esso News will be distributed

Friday, January 29. All copy must reach the editor in the
Personnel building by Saturday noon, January 23.

| Telephone 3379

 

Tres Cos Esencial

Den un discurso cu Gerente General Smith a tene durante
e banquete pa Comitenan Consultivo luna pasé, e a expresa
pensamentonan cu semper a tin un importancia halto, pero
cu awor cu guera ta sacudi henter mundo, tin un significa-
cién mas grandi i mas serio.

E a bisa, ”Tres cos nos meser haci: Asisti na nos trabao;
conoce nos obligacionnan, i defende nos derechonan manera
nos ta mira nan.” I ningin di e tres cos aki por worde kita
fo’i nos, sin cu esaki perjudica nos posicién como empleado-
nan di un refineria di petréleo grandi i esencial, of como
ciudadanonan di Nacionnan Uni.

Nos trabao por ta justamente mas importante, pues sin nos
trabao, i esun di millones di otronan manera nos, Nacionnan
Uni lo falla den nan lucha, i pronto lo bira ”esclavonan” di
dictadornan. I si esey sosode nos no lo por reclama ningtin
derecho, i solamente lo resta nos e obligacionnan i trabaonan
di esclavitud.

Por worde bisa cu den un mundo unda libertad ta existi,
obligacionnan di cada homber ta requeri e.o. p’e biba di tal
manera cu e no lo stroba esunnan cu ta biba rond di dje di
haya e mes oportunidad pa percura pa nan existencia i fe-
licidad.

I ultimo, pero no menos importante, ta ’defende nos dere-
cho manera nos ta mira nan”. Den tempo di guera algtin
derechonnan mester worde sacrifica p’e bienestar di cada un.
Pero den tempo di guera tambe, mas ainda cu den tempo di
paz, e derechonan esencial di libertad mester worde protegi,
di manera cu, avanzando den e caminda di victoria, nos no
perde e frutonan di victorianan anterior.

RESOLUTIONS FOR 1943:

To beat that man in Berlin and his gang before the
year is out.

If they escape being beaten in 1943, then to fight them
until they are beaten.
@ No matter what our part in the conflict, whether large
or small, near or far, to carry it through with all the
strength of our faith and hope in the United Nations’ cause.

 

 

Of the many kinds and degrees of honesty, one of the
most outstanding is in turning in money that has been found,
especially when a substantial sum is involved.

Such was the honesty recently of Carlos Peterson, 16 year
old Hospital messenger boy, when he turned in to Hospital
officials a large sum of money which he found in one of the
corridors, evidently lost by a patient or visitor. He could
easily have pocketed the money and no one would have been
the wiser, ‘but he chose rather to do the honest thing.

ARUBA ESSO NEWS a

 

Three Essentials

Speaking at the Advisory Committee banquet last
month, General Manager Smith expressed in a nutshell
a philosophy good at any time but weighted with extra
significance when war shakes all normal existence.

Three things we must do, he said: “Attend to our
jobs, realize our obligations, and defend our rights as
we see them”. And no one of the three can be taken
away without damaging our position as employees of
a great and essential petroleum refinery or as citizens
of the United Nations.

The jobs may rightly be placed first, since without
our work, and the work of millions like us, the United
Nations would fail and the world would slip quickly in-
to the dictators’ mold of master and slave. In that mold
there would be no rights, and only the obligations and
jobs of slavery.

Obligations in a free world may be said to involve
living in such a way that those about us have an equal
chance to pursue their own livelihood and happiness
without interference from our pursuit of these needs.

Last but by no means least is “defend our rights as
we see them”. In wartime some rights must necessarily
be given up for the common good. But in war even
more than in peace the essential rights of freedom must
be safeguarded, so that by advancing in victory we do not
lose the fruits of past victories.

 

“That's the last pleasure car in town.”

E magico ey tin e ultimo acto di paseo n’e ciudad aki.

 
NEWS
AND
VIEWS

Over 200 men attended
the annual Christmas party
given by the Company for
Government employees
December 22. The Marine
Club was the scene of the
party, as in past years, and
was filled to overflowing
with guests and with Christ -
mas cheer. Welcoming
speeches, toasts, the an-
thems of Holland, England,
and the United States, and
many songs and much talk
filled the hours. Shown
below are groups of guests;
reading from top to bottom,
the Military Police, San
Nicolas Customs men, and
Postoffice employees. At
bottom is the committee
that organized the party;
left to right are Wervers,
Brook, Raymond, Marugg,
and Armstrong.

 

 

 

 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  

AN OLD SWEDISH CUSTOM..-The little girl
lighting the enormous candle with an enor
mous match is following an old Swedish custom.
It is lighted once each year, on New Year’s|
Eve, and burns for half an hour. The owners!
of the candle, who brought it from Sweden,
figure it should last for 50 years. The candle-
Ighter is Christira, daughter of Assistant

Chief Watchman Hoglund.

|
|

Siguiendo un costumbra Sueco, e mucha
chiquito aki ta cende un bela grandi cu un
palo di lucifer enorme Un vez pa aia,
vispera di Afia Nobo, e mes bela ta
cendi durante mei ora. Su dofonan ta
cala cu e lo dura 50 afa. E mucha c
quito ta Christine, yiu di K. A. Hoglund,
Asistente di Chief Watchman.

With the £0-year cand e and the

Government-employee Christmas

party furnishing the NEWS for

the title of this page, the compos-

or leaves it up to Ann Ruther-

ford of Universal Studios to act
as the VIEWS.
Caught by the photo-
jrapher while celebrat-
ng their copper wed-
ding anniversary (12'/2
years, according to
Netherlands custom),
Mr. and Mrs. Hermanus
Huising have all the
appearances of enjoy-
ng the occasion. They
are shown with some of
the gifts they received
digh on the list was the
sable, being held by
Mrs. Huisi-g, which
arrived here from their
‘elatives in Holland via
he International Red
Cross in *.Switzerland
he day before the anni-
versary.

Ye heer en Mevrouw Huising geven den indruk de feestelijke gelegenheid in alle cpzichten
e genieten toen onze fotograat deze opname van de viering van hun keperen kruiloit nem.
Men ziet hen hier met enkele van de vele ceschenken, die zij ontvingen.
ijkste geschenken was een telegram, dat Mevrouw Huising hier toort en dat het echtpaar
laags voor hun 121/2 jarig huwelijksfeest via het Inierraticrale Rcode Kruis te Geréve van

hunne familie in Nederland ontving.

 

 

 
   
       
     
   

AMERICAN SHIPYARDS
BUILT /0 TIMES AS MANY
OF THE DEADLY PC BOATS
INTHE FIRST 5 MONTHS
OF 1942 AS THEY DID
IN THE ENTIRE YEAR
OF 1941 /

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
     
    
       
           
     
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ke
D li

GARLIC FLAVOR 15
DETECTABLE IN MILK
EVEN THOUGH A COW
ONLY INHALES THE
ODOR IN A
“GARLICKY” PASTURE,

  

ENOUGH ALUMINUM “TO BUILD /O ARMY ‘
BOMBERS \5 RECLAIMED EVERY 30 DAYS
FROM MACHINE SHOP CHIPS AND SHAVINGS ff
~~ JN ONE FACTORY
Fy
cS
ONE GUN WHICH
ORIGINALLY COST
$/50 15 NOW
BEING MADE FOR
LESS THANS50
By MASS PRODUCTION
METHODS

  

*DUNGAREE” “Me NAME
APPLIED “Id FATIGUE
CLOTHES, COMES FROM
“DUNGRI ” AN AREA
NEAR BOMBAY, INDIA,
WHERE A COARSE KIND
OF BLUE COTTON CLOTH

WAS FIRST MADE.

 

The smiling face under the Army
hat is Gilbert Brook, Jr., now in the
ground crew at Randolph Field, Texas.

 

Een der beleng- Gil Jr, son of Chiet Watchman

Brook, was a graduate of !.ego School
and later was well-known around the
Weldirg department. The picture with
his father was taken at Louisville,
Kentucky, where his parents visited
him on their recent vacation, before
his transfer to Randolph Field.

A group of top-ranking Netherlands officials, including Dr.
Hubertus van Mook, Netherlands Colonial Minister, was
entertained by the Company December 24. Some of the
members of the party are shown in the office of Gener-
al Manager L. G. Smith. Left to right are Major-Gen-
eral L. H. van Oyen, Commander of the Netterlands
East Indies Army Air Force, now stationed at the Royal
Netherlands Military Flying School at Jackson, Miss.; Gov-
ernor P. Kasteel of Curacao; L. G. Smith; Dr. H. van Mook,
Netherlands Colonial Minister in the Imperia! Council, who
be'ore the war was Lt. Governor-General of the N. E. |;
and Raden Loekman Djajaniningrat of Java, Minister Without
Portfolio in the Imperial Council. Lt. Goverror | Wage-
2 omaker of Aruba was also a member of the party.

Ex-oficialnan halto di Gobierno Holandes di Cost-Indié, cu
awor ta residi na Londen, a bishita Lago luna pasa. Aki bao nos
ta mira den oficina di Gerente General L G. Smith, di ro-
bez pa drechi: Generaal-Majoor L. A. van Oyen di Fuer-
za Aéreo di Oost-Indié, Gouverneur Kasteel di Curacao,
Sr. Smith, Dr. H. van Mook, Ministro di Colonias kende
prome cu guera tawata Luitenant-Gouverneur-Genereal di
Oost-Indié, i Raden Loekman Djajaniningrat di Java. Ge-
'¥" zaghebber Wagemaker tambe a compaiia e grupo.

 

 
   

   

Lago’s employees play an all-impor- |
tant part in the Company's work of
providing petroleum products for the
United Nations’ fighting forces. To
illustrate their part in the conflict,
and also the part being played by
fellow-employees in other divisions of
the Company, the News reproduces
a publication of the Standard Oil
Company (N.J.).

Se. |

(Continued from previous issue)

|

HIGHER, FASTER, |
| DEADLIER |

Way up there where there’s nothing
between the seat of your pants and
Mother Earth but four or five miles of
plain air and the floor of the cockpit
which the enemy is trying to shoot out
from under you, the advantage of having
more power in your engine comes in

very handy, either for striking fastest or
for ducking. Our fighting airmen possess
that combat advantage, and _ it

comes

 

TETORY

MAC THE MAKING

ARUBA ESSO NEWS

from 100-octane gasoline which
gives our fighting planes more
power, or our bombers greater fuel
economy, depending upon how it is
utilized by the engines.

We began making this super
fuel available to our fighting
forces in 1935 when Esso Laboratories
perfected a process for making 100-
octane gasoline. This gave the aircraft
industry an early start in designing
engines to utilize the extra power which
the new product made available.

We designed and put into operation
the first commercial plants to make 100-
octane by the methods now producing, or
which will produce, 95 per cent of the
synthetic high octane portion of this
super fuel and over 60 per cent of the
special base gasoline with which it is
blended.

Our processes are available to all
refiners in the United States and will
be used by many of them in the united
effort to meet the heavy demand for 100-
octane aviation gasoline.

Today our own refineries supply a
substantial percentage of the 100-octane
gasoline used by the United Nations. To
increase even our present large produc-
tion substantially, we are now spending
$60,000,000 for new plants.

TIRES OUT OF
A WELL

 

Ever since 1929 Esso laboratories have
made a costly, unremitting effort to
make rubber from petroleum. The degree
of our succeess is indicated by the fact
that the United States now can replace
natural rubber with synthetic rubber,

JANUARY 8, 1943

 

An endless sheet of Perbunan syn-

thetic rubber is cut and rolled by

skilled workers into narrower strips
for easy handling.

the volume depending upon how much
steel and other construction material and
labor are made available for the special
plants. The raw material, crude oil, is
plentiful.

The daily transport of thousands of
war plant workers to their jobs by bus
or car is directly related to Victory in
the Making. The serious effect of im-
mobilizing these workers through lack of
tires is recognized by all. Also recogniz-
ed is the fact that 48,000 towns and
villages in the United States are now
wholly dependent upon automotive
transportation for contact with the rest
of the world. How ingenuity will stave
off the calamity of immobilizing workers
and isolating communities, it is impos-
sible to say at the present time.

If new rubber is the only solution, the
United States can make as much synthe-
tic rubber as is needed, provided that
sufficient steel and other vital materials
are diverted from other Victory needs
for the plants. This becomes a matter of
balancing one need against another, and
calls for a decision which only Govern-
ment can make.

While civilian needs hang in the
balance, we do have the satisfaction of
knowing that military needs can be filled
with synthetic rubber under present
plans.

Our organization, right now, is making
thousands of pounds of synthetic rubber
(Perbunan) every day. Every ounce of

 

 

 

 
)
1
1

 

JANUARY 8, 1942

this product, which is a specialty (not
tire) type, helps us toward Victory, for
it is all used in building tanks, planes
and other war machines. Perbunan is
superior to natural rubber for fuel lines,
engine mounts airplane  cabin-sealing
compounds, gasoline tanks, gaskets, and
many other parts. A large bomber, for
instance, may have several thousand
synthetic rubber parts.

Experiments with another synthetic
rubber, Butyl, are being constantly push-
ed. A small experimental plant produces
170 pounds of this product daily for
experimentation which may give us a
better solution to the rubber shortage
problem than we have now. In June,
1941, we started construction of a large
scale Butyl rubber plant which has since
been taken over by the U.S. Government.

The 1,000,000-ton a year synthetic
rubber program now being developed by
the Government calls for the production
of much Buna-S made by the process
which we bought from a German com-
pany. More than 50,000 tons a year will
be Butyl rubber made by the process
which we discovered in 1937 and have
been developing ever since.

 

AIRCRAFT UNDER
CONTROL

control
anti-friction
If the pulleys don’t turn, the

Pulleys over which airplane
cables operate turn on
bearings.

Official U.

ARUBA ESSO NEWS

 

cable will slide and in time will wear and
break. Disaster may result. Even if the
cable doesn’t break, the controls will not
operate freely.

One good reason for the pulley not
operating would be congealing of the
grease in the bearings at low temperature
or melting out at high temperature. This
can’t happen now, for in 1941 we
developed for the Army and Navy a
grease for control pulley bearings that
would allow free movement at 65 degrees
below zero F., and which would stay in
the bearings up to 150 degrees above
zero F.

 

| CASEY JONES |
| BACK AT WORK

Anticipating wartime transportation
emergencies, we began in the summer of
1941 to haul crude oil from the middle
west and the southwest to our eastern
refineries — something we hadn’t done
in 20 years. When the tanker shortage
developed a flew weeks later, we set to
in earnest to develop the transportation
of crude oil by tank car. That tanker
shortage was alleviated in the fall, but
we are now faced with a far more
serious shortage. Today we are using
every tank car we can get our hands on
to bolster the flow of oil to the east.

We have spent thousands of dollars
(most of it before Pearl Harbor) to
build new unloading racks to handle the
thousands of cars which roll in every
week. In addition, and again before
Pearl Harbor, we started to ship refined
products up the Mississippi and Ohio

S. Navy Phctograph

 

Rivers by barge and thence eastward by
tank car. This is more expensive, but
supplants shipments by tanker from
Gulf to Atlantic ports and thence west-
ward by pipe line.

 

PULSE BEATS |
IN STEEL ARTERIES |

 

Pirates of old were smart enough to
know that control of the treacherous
Florida straits gave them control of the
water-borne trade from the Gulf of
Mexico to the North Atlantic seaboard
and to Europe. Modern pirates wearing
the Swastika, are just as smart, in their
despicable way, as they are now proving.

However, we anticipated them in some
measure, in that southeastern United
States, which for its petroleum supply
was once largely dependent upon tanker
transportation coming through the
Florida straits, now has the assurance of
a constant supply by the Plantation Pipe
Line. This line, of which we are a joint
owner, was rushed to completion early
this year and carries gasoline, heating
oil, kerosene, and tractor fuel from
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to six south-
eastern states, in which there are large
war industries and numerous Army
camps and air bases.

Late in 1941 we completed another
vital pipe line which carries crude oil
from Portland, Maine, to Montreal,
Quebec refineries, eliminating the haul
around the Gaspe Peninsula and down
the St. Lawrence River and saving hard-
pressed tankers 2,000 miles and 12 days’
journey on every round trip they make.

CONCLUSION

Many wlio had a look at advance
proofs of this booklet said that it showd
have a conclusion. We would state it this
way:

From the record of this one company,
it is plainly apparent that industry is
essential to our Victory effort. We have
told you how this company of ours has
risen with all of its resources to meet
the responsibility laid before it. We
assure you that what we have done is
typical of what all industry has done —
namely, that it has worked, is working,
and will work, to give that boy at the
front the edge he needs to lick the
enemy.

 

 
8

Plaque Commemorating 40
Years With Co. Presented
To Maduro Organization

Group Was [First to Promote
Curagao as Bunkering Station

A 40-year period as representative of
the Company was commemorated De-
cember 16 when L. G. Smith presented
a bronze plaque to the Curacao firm of
S.E.L. Maduro & Sons. The presentation,
attended by prominent Government,
Church, and business representatives,
took place in the Maduro office at
Willemstad.

The firm, which is 105 years old,
established its first connection with the
Company in 1902, with an order for 25
cans of kerosene. From this small begin-
ning with the oil business, the Maduro
company kept pace with the changes and
developments that eventually made Cu-
racao one of the important oil bunkering
stations of the world.

A translation of the wording on the
plaque, which is inscribed in Spanish,
reads:

”Presented to S.E.L. Maduro & Sons,
in recognition of 40 years as representa-
tive of our company, and for their work,
integrity, and reputation, which greatly
influenced the progress and prosperity
of the community”.

Shown at left below are Company and Maduro
officials with the commemorative plaque. Left
to right are M.H.L Maduro, L.G. Smith, C.L.
Maduro, C.F. Sabourin of the Sales department
in Caracas, S.A.L. Maduro, and M.L. Maduro.
A closeup of the plaque is shown at right.

ARUBA ESSO NEWS

JANUARY 8, 1943

Shown above are members of the Employees’ Advisory Committee who were elected in
November to serve during 1943. After each man’s name are the departments he represents;
his own department is shown in italics :

Aki ‘riba

nos ta

mira e@ miembronan di Comité Consultivo di Empleadonan cu a worde

elegi na November pa sirbi durante 1943. Pa nombernan mira aki bao.

Back row, left to right: Henwy Hirsch-
feld, Marine Office and Marine Whar-
ves; Eustace Martin, Storehouse and
Salvage Yard; Gordon Ollivierre, Elec-
trical and Instrument; Juan Maduro,
Foundry, Machine Shop, M. & C. Adm.,
and Welding; Joe Arrindell, Hydro Poly
and Gas Plant, Pressure Stills; Joe da
Silva de Freitas, Light Oils Finishing;
Paul Bowers, Dining Hall and Stewards;
Abdul Syed, Utilities (Powerhouse).

Front row: Juan Thijsen, Masons &
Insulators, and Paint; Luciano Wever,
Labor; Charles Leverock, Hydro Poly
and Gas Plant, Presswre Stills; Robert
Cade, Pipe; Ram Harry Paul, Acid &
Edeleanu, and Receiving & Shipping;

George King, Drydock; Idelio Henriquez,
Labor; Henry Nassy, T. S. D.; Henry
Amoroso, Commissaries, Cold Storage,
and Laundry.

Back insets: Isidro Lopez, Carpenter;
Max deCuba, Building & Maint., and
Garage; Humphrey Courtney, Account-
ing, Clubs, Colony Service Adm., Exe-
cutive Office, Personnel, and School;
Bernardo Croes, Pipe.

Front insets: Edney Huckleman,
Medical; Carlos Hernandez, Labor; Jack
Reilly, Watching Service.

5, PY
VACUO UOS ORAS IY
ERORIAEIERIS “Gul FARO
> PROSPER BE LA ;

LAGO OL &-TRANSPORT COMP

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13 JANUARY 8, 1943

 

ARUBA ESSO NEWS

Lago Downs C.P1.M. for Permanent Possession of

Cricket Cup; Aruba

Lago’s cricketers won over the C. P.
I. M. squad from Curacao December 26
to take permanent possession of the Lago
cup in the third contest for the trophy.
The following day the Aruba-Curagao
test match ended in a draw, the only
winner being the weather, which provid-
ed rain during much of the playing time.

C.P.I.M. 46 and 15 for 6 wickets
Lago 157 for 7 wickets declared

Lago captain Bernhard Mongroo won
the toss and sent the visitors in to bat
on a perfect wicket. He entrusted the
new ball to his crack pace bowlers, Sin-
clair (Rabbit Warner and Teddy John-
son. With the score at 11, Nelson was
bowled with a beauty from Johnson, his
individual score being 11. Shortly after,
Marksman was bowled by a_ beautiful
out-swing from Warner. Then the riot
started, for within half an hour the score
board read 20 runs for 8 wickets. Then
Abbott came in and mastered the bowl-
lers, thus forcing Captain Mongroo to
make a double change. When the C. P.
I. M. innings was over, Abbott had con-
tributed 21 not out.

Lago then went in to bat after lunch

 

Draws With Curacao’s Best

and made the score of 157 runs for 7
wickets declared. Batting stars of the
day were Paul Boucher 31, Felix West 30
not out, and Sinclair Warner 39 not out;
all three are from the Carpenter dept.,
and proved they could handle the willow.

The slow bowlers were unplayable;
Mongroo bowled 4 overs and got 3
wickets for 1 run; Boucher bowled 3

overs, and got 1 wicket for 1 run.
Curacao 126 runs
Aruba 40 runs for 1 wicket

Because of rain, rain, and more rain,
the test match December 27 started late.
Captain Mendes won the toss and sent in
Curacao. Aruba at one stage had 7
wickets down for 46 runs. Then Peter
and Anthony started hitting the ball all
over the field. They took the score to 80
runs when Peter was caught in the out-
field by Edwards, who took the greatest
catch of the tournament. Curacao’s_ in-
nings came to a close with 126 runs, with
Aruba having only 30 minutes for play
before drawing of stumps.

Capt. Mendes sent in Regi McLean and
Martin Edwards to open the innings, and
at the drawing of stumps the score was
43 runs for 1 wicket.

After the match Bertie Viapree, chair-
man of the Aruba Cricket Board of Con-
trol, introduced W. C. Colby to players
and fans. After complimenting the
Board on their good work in promoting
inter-islands sports, Mr. Colby presented
the various prizes.

The Lago team (see bottom of page 9)
was, back row, Teddy Johnson, James
Sharp, Sinclair Warner, Kelon Perrotte,
Bernhard Mongroo, and John de Souza;
front row, Griffith Canwood, Paul Bou-
cher, Victor Campbell, Henry Nassy, and
Joseph Butts. In the second picture Mr.
Colby presents a prize to Foster Anthony
of Curacao, with Bertie Viapree
sisting.

as-

 

Fight Finals Rank with Best

Fans found the fighting fast and furious at the
last of the Army-Legion-Club series December
17, with bouts that kept the crowd on chair-
edges. Fists are all over the place in the first
four pictures while the fifth shows Col. W. L.
Mitchell presenting a prize to Farr (or is it Barr?)

 

 
Graduates of Pressure Stills (top) and Gas Plant (below) job training courses.

ARUBA ESSO NEWS

JANUARY 8, 1943

IAS 19438

Pressure Stills and Gas Plant Graduate 42

(Included in

the second picture are R. C. Baum and L. G. Lopez of the Gas Plant, at left, and instructor
R. M. Yates at right).

Graduation exercises were held
December 17 for 29 Pressure Stills
employees and 13 Gas Plant employees
on completing job training courses in
their respective departments.

In the Pressure Stills course, which
started January 2, 1942, those who
graduated are Leonard Volney, David
Glyn-Williams, George McPherson, Pe-
dro Croes, George Fernandes, Augustine
deBarros, Richard deAbreu, Joseph Ro-
drigues, Philip Volney, Carlos Vis, Jo-
seph Latouf, Martin Richardson, Paul
Rach, Loudolph_ Vieira, Carl Gomes,
Claudius Lejuez, Thomas McDavid,
Stanley Moniz, Johan Bodeutsch, Wii-
liam Punnett, Antonio Carvalhal, David
Viaun, Rudolf Vlet, Jules Casper, Mau-
rice Dalrymple, Gabriel Fernandes, Pier-
cy Shanks, and Nellius van Vollevelde,
H. L. Minton was instructor of the
group.

In the Gas Plant course, diplomas were
awarded to Albert Tjon, Juan Lacle,
Elliot Bryan, Alvin Texeira, Jozefus
Tromp, George Lawrence, Aloysius Lo,
Vito Orman, Jan Rasmijn, Alcides Ro-
mer, Alfredo Precilla, Gregorio Nicolaas,
and Desire Valen. This group had stud-
ied since January 15, 1942, with R.M.
Yates as instructor.

Empleadonan di Pressure Stills i Gas
Plant cu recientemente a termina curso-

nan di entrenamento cu cual nan
minza na Januari di ana pasa.

a cu-

BANQUET from page 1
tions and sacrifices after that sort of
meal.

Assistant General Manager F. S.
Campbell was Toastmaster, and Ram
Paul, Chairman of the Employees’
Advisory Committee, was Master of
Ceremonies for the impromptu entertain-
ment that accompanied the dinner.

The speakers, who included Ram Paul,
L. J. Brewer, Percy Branch, and L. G.
Smith, pointed out the value of coopera-
tion through the committee plan in the
great effort needed to play our part in
the war for freedom.

Democracy, implying certain rights
but also carrying certain obligations,
was the keynote of the main address of
the evening, made by Mr. Smith. He
commented on the newness of the com-
mittee system in this part of the world,
with its philosophy of all peoples rising
together, and guaranteed that the Com-
pany is guided by the ideals of democra-
cy, while realizing that development
must necessarily be slow. Speaking
directly to the committeemen, he assured
them that the Management has faith in
their sincerity and in the fact that their
opinions express the ideas of their con-
stituents.

ee ee
NEW ARRIVALS

eee

A son, Frank George, to Mr. and Mrs.
Arpad Pekary, December 12.

A son, Roberto, to Mr. and Mrs. Epi-
fanio Vrolijk, December 13.

A son, George Herbert, to Mr.
Mrs. Sidney Alleyne, December 14.

A son, Eusebio Clemente, to Mr. and
Mrs. Urbano Oduber, December 15,

A daughter, Agnes Elaine, to Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Carthy, December 15.

A son, Ralph Kenneth, to Mr.
Mrs. Ralph Osborn, December 16.

A daughter, Olga Mirta, to Mr. and
Mrs. Guilberto Maduro, December 17.

A son, Henry Johan, to Mr. and Mrs.
Magnus Malmberg, December 18.

A son, Lyle John, to Mr. and Mrs.

Lyle Redfoot, December 19.

and

and

NEWS BITS From Page 2
with a description of how the mistake
could be avoided.

One of the most striking of recent
exhibits is a gauge that is displayed
under this sign: "When a job is complet-
ed, pick up all material that is not used.
Send it back to the Shop. This gauge
was left behind on top of a tower and
was not found till six months later’.
The gauge is a complete wreck, so rusted
away in six months that it is hardly
recognizable.

NIGHT OWL

Humphrey Courtney, genial night
barman at the Esso Club who has work-
ed with every Manager the Club has had
since it opened in 1930, has a record
which must be rare and may be in a
class by itself. Last month he passed his
twelfth year behind the bar (or bars)
and every year, month, and hour of that
service was on the 4 to 12 shift, or 3 to
11 depending on Club hours. He could
easily claim to have seen more night
life” than anyone else in Aruba, and has
followed the Club through all its ups
and downs, starting when the barten-
ders’ job was nothing but reaching into
a tub for bottles of beer.

New stenographic training groups will
be organized late in January. As in the
past, eligibility for the classes will be
on the basis of competitive examinations.

Those interested in participation
should see their foremen, who can supply
them with the necessary information.

 
