oa, See ere ee

Weekly
Every
‘Sunday

ee

PORT-AU-E

 

-RINCE, HAITI, 37 Ave

|
4 |

 

“Herr” Werner Limbér 8 President of UBERSEE KAFEEE, one
“of Haiti’s best coffee customers and a philanthropic friend is seen
above showing columnist Aubelin Jolicoeur, and Mr. Albert Boyer,
lead ot the Economic Affairs at the Ministry of Finances, blend-

ed Haitian coffee that is served in his two hundred coffee shops
in West Germany, during a recent visit they made in Germany
3 as his guests.

German Coffee
& Tycoon Due

» Herr’ <Consul. Werner Lim-
Wberg, one: of the most outstand-
ing figures in. the Coffee busin-
@SS | in. Germany will arrive here
“Wednesday on, his annual visit
to his adopted Country.

- The President of. the UBER-
SEE KAFFEE, one of Haiti’s
best coffee customers is com-|
‘ing here to visit his many fri-
fends and meet with his “‘four-
tlisseurs’’? such as‘ Wiener, Na-
zon in Port au Prince and Otto
‘Schutt in Cap-Haitien.

_ Mr. Limberg buy every year
‘many thousands bags of the
‘world famed Haitian coffee to
blend with coffee from South
and Central America and .Afri-
ca and Asia.

  

“Herr” Consul Werner Limberg

* “N

The many friends of Mr. Lim-
berg will roll out the red carpet
for him here Wednesday as he
‘has done for so many Haitians

isiting Germany.
Mr. Limberg whose’ motto
(Continued on page 16),

 

‘Compulsory Scheel
Sports To Be
Enforced

Physical Wducation in
schools, compulsory by
Jaw since 1938, but seldom
fenforced will be rigorous-
dy supervised in the new
academic year beginning
‘October Gth according to
‘the Department of Na-
tional Education which is-
‘sued a Communique to

this effect mid-weék.
The ‘Eduaction. Department’s

‘Communiqite specifies. that sat
(Continued on page 16) |

      
 

THOHINT (the highway

rity

 

 

A view of the bridge after dedication.
and road maintenance and Repair ser-

Marie-Jeanone — CITE DU MARSAIS ESTIME — Phone #061 — Vol AX — Sunday September

 

 

| BEAUTY CONTEST
For Miss Haiti 1963

CONTEST TO BH
HIGHLIGHT OF
‘ SECOND ..
PAN-AMERICAN

FESTIVAL HERE

 

Provincial towns have

been called upon by the
Ministry of Tourism ts
form “regional committ-
ees” to prepare the selec-
tion of Beauty Queens
who will compete in the
Capital for the title of
Miss Haiti, it was announ-
ced this week by the daily
press. :

Creole beauties from all over
the Republic will compete for
Miss Haiti 1963,/ Miss Coffee and
Miss Tourism during the sec-

(Continued on page 16)

President To Address ‘Nati
Tomorrow

President Dr, Francois Duvalier will address the Na-
tion tomorrow morning at a special. manifestation or-
ganized by the MRN at Mariani to mark the openmns
of the new 1962-63 fiscal year, —

The President’s address will be broadonst to the Na-
tion. The MRN has called upon Government officials,
employees as well as the general public to ae the

Mariani meeting.

Photo Co verage

 

 

The bridge was built by

vice) and U.S. Steel with funds made available by the International
Sank of Reconstruction (World Bank).

New Road & Bridge Tolls Now In Effect

 

30th, 1962 — No. 50

Tolls on all the major highway, hefore bridges and:
towns throughout the Re epublic went into effect this
week with the publication of the new “Fonds Routier i
de la Republique” Law. ea

The law made public this week was signed by’ Dev
puty Lue F. Francois, President of the Chamber and
dated September 12th.’
Article 1st.—By the present
Law is ‘created a special Fund
called: “FONDS. ROUTIER Dit
LA REPUBLIQUE D’HAITI’,

   
  
   
 
    
   
 
   
  
  

will be paid entirely to ‘the Tie
nances and Economic Affairs
Department on ‘the account of
{the Permanent Couneil of Eco-
nomiic Liberation Action of the
Republic of Haiti and will serve

(Continued on page 12)

French “ Hotelier ’
To Manager ibo-Lele

This’ Fund will be administ-
ered and managed by the Exe-
cutive Section of the Permanent
Council of the Economic Liber:
ation of the Republic of Haiti
according to the Laws — and

 

rules _ of Administration refer-
ring to it. Architect R obert Ba
ussan,
Article 2nd.—The profit of du- Owner ‘of the Hotel Tho-Lele
ties approvisioning the Fund

greeted here Tuesday Mr, Phi-

lippe Emile’ Megevand and

beautiful wife Kathy and 3-year-

old daughter Katarina. a
French Hotelier Philippe Me-

gevand ‘is the new Manager of —

Re {Continued on page 46).

Water Supply
Problem

will be deposited in a. special,
non-fiscal account at the Nation-
al Bank of the Republic of Haiti
and must not be confused with
the mass of the State funds. It

mh

UA

‘In spite of a favorable rainy —

season, many, residential sec:
tions of Port au Prince and_
Petionville aré confronted with
a water shortage and in some’
districts water is simply wast
‘ed.

(Continued on page 10) “)

 

Dedication Of ‘Du valier Bridge’

(See Page 3 For Further Photos and Minis ster Herve Boyer’ s Speech ate c

 

President Dr. Francois Duvalier assisting his wife, cut the cere-
monial ribbon across the new bridge over the Riviere Grise at.

Croix des Mission on September 22nd,
PAGT 2

In HaitiiThis* Week

By AUBELIN JOLICOEUR

 

 

=e VET, Ruben Berta; President of Varig Air-
line arrived Friday afternoon in the company
, of Mr. Paul Baez, Personnel Manager and
' Mrs. Charlotte Franklin, Public Relations Ma-
nager for the same. company in New York.

Pan American.

The distinguished visitors were met at the
| airport by Brazilian. Ambassador here, Dr.
Fi Nelson Tabajara and Mr. Jean Saurel, Sales Manager of Pan Am.
They are staying two days in Port au Prince.

1

 

.

Haitian economist ‘Edriss Vincent, Head of the Department of
Statistics at the Banaue Nationale de la Repubique d’Haiti arriv-
ed here last weekend from Washington, D.C. where he spent 12
“months following the training program of the International Mone
tary Fund with a scholarship from the State Department.
**Author Charles Fernand Pressoir who will .soon publish in
" New York his new book entitled ‘‘Africa in Haiti” (Basic Voodoo
, end Basic Creole) flew to New York this week to attend the wed-

"ding of his daughter Jacqueline who eee yesterday architect
Gerald Elie,

%

i

 

agricole” for 18 months.
eee group of sixteen travel agents from the States conducted
_ by Thomas Joseph O’Brien landed here Wednesday on a two day
information trip. They were greeted by Mr. Jean. Saurel, Sales
Manager of Pan Am and Andy Andersen Manager of the Souther-
 Jand’ Tours. ‘They were guests at the El Rancho. They were taken
to different hotels to look over the accommodations.

“**Lt, Gene Bailey, officer of the USMC
joined the U.S. Navat Mission here this
_ week. The Marine Officer from North Car-
a olina is accompanied by his wife and. his
7-month-old boy Gregory.
*Vie Jampson is back this week, Vic
“wha Spent thirteen years here as Manager
of the Firestone is now in Montevideo, Uru-
guay. He is a current eet at the Oloffson.
_ *** Vir, Charles Foot, a ‘Representative of ese
ye ‘Ward, Blinkinsop & Co Ltd, a pharmaceutical company of London
was met here at the airport this week by Mr. ‘Albert Villedrouin
of the Maison Villedrouin, an Agent for the Ward, Blinkinsop

: & Co. Ltd. ' atin
: B : —

  

8 Vligs June Elaine Krause, a medical Secretary from Haddon-
_ ‘field, New Jersey flew down here Thursday coming from Puerto
_. Rico. The lovely visitor, ‘‘sweet and twenty” is a fabulous dancer.
June who took ballet lessons in Philadelphiha is a keen exponent
of all rhythms. She held audience in raptures at the Caribe-
- Haiti Hotel and the Casino, Thursday night at Katherine Dunham's
Habitation Leclerc, Friday night and at Cabane Choucoune last
night. The young German speaking visitor is making her outings
in company with stunning Gerty Pressoir Garib, Manager of the
Hotel Oloffson. Miss Eve Levesque from Ottawa, (Canada), poet
Barry Farrell from New York, Miss Candace Avery from Pitts-
field, N. H. and Mr. Max Pfeffer, a literary Agent from every-
where all guests at the Gingerbread Palace.

“William Hale, a young Attorney at Law from: New York and
his pretty wife Joan were entranced with their visit here this
week, Bill and Joan got married on September 15 and arrived
here a few days later on their honeymoon. Joan, a delightful dan-

7 cer introduced her husband to the Haitian meringue. They were
_guestst at the Oloffson,

 

*

*“James Blake Cahoon, a motion picture Director and Melvin
F. Wright a photographer from Rochester, New. York are stopping
at the Sans Souci hotel.

 

$

“Thomas Brown, a practipedist from Buenos Aires was met
at the’ airport this weekend by Mr. “Orlando Petoja, an Agent. for
_-_ Scholl’s. Mr. ‘Thomas Brown is giving ltations at Petoia’s.

  

   

SAH Al Tl SUN *

 

Varig is a Brazilian airline affiliated with’ -

_ “Youthful Haitian Agronomists Guy Beaulieu and Antonio Ai-
Ine went to San Jose, Costa Rica this wek to es “extension

 

MINISTER-COUNSELOR U. S. EMBASSY
AT DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

 

-

Mr. Curtis, the Minister Coun-
selor of the U.S. Embassy in ‘
Haiti, paid a courtesy visit to} During the conversation, the

Mr, Sins Desvarieux, Minist-] titular of the said Department
ry

er of Justice, Wednesday mor-
ning.

“Dr. Ake Nielzen, a Swedish physician teaching allergy at the
Jniversity of Stockholm and his charming wife Britta are current
guests here... Dr. William Marshall of Cincinnati, Ohio and wife
3arbara married on September 22 are staying two days at the
"1 Rancho... James Anglisano an accordeonist and his , pretty wife
Marion from New York flew down here this Seekers: Dr, Ed-
ward Goldberg from Kendall, Fla and wife Lee are guests at El
‘Rancho.
*““Benet Rosio Executive Director Dag Hammarskjold Founda-
» on in Stockholm stopped here Monday on_ his way home after
i meeting of the Executive Committee of this Foundation in/N. NG:
*e* Nones O'Don Nell, an Assistant Chief Operator from” “Irving,

if

   
 

Jersey are spending six days at the E] Rancho.,

**Architect Vincent Donnelly is back here this week. Vincent
is eae eet oe tne Chatelet de la Montagne Noire.
and wife Naomi arrived early this week on their honeymoon...
Miss Margueritte Egan, a communication: analyst from New Jer-
sey and William Egan, a student stopped ‘here this week.

“Dr, Gerard Frederique who just completed his specialization
in Ophtalimology in Pittsburgh, Pa comes back this week in cem-
pany with Mrs, Esther Eshleman, a nurse from Lititz, Pa.

“'k“Herr’” Kurt Ludwigsen, Consul of Germany in ‘Kingston is
current guest here. He was seen around in company with Mr.
Gunter Samabale of the German Legation and wife Evy.

***Tovely Ann Chappell, a secretary: from Tate, Georgia and
“Miss Boots Jebeles, a secretar'y to a Congressman in Washington
nade a short stop here this week.

**Myed Ludecke, Jr. just comoleted a three month vacations

vith some relatives in Miami. :

***Dr. Alix Theard, accompanied ‘by his wife Francoise flew to
‘exico Friday to attend a Congress... Young Henri Robert Forbin
will fly Air France from New York ta Brussells where he is going
to study engineering.

e in certain

 

\

tee

 

 

 

‘oadeasting fields — notably for announcers’ and news: readers’

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

 

explained the action of the Jus-
tice in Haiti to the visitor.
Minister Desvarieux seized the |
opportunity to underline the de-
ference of the Chief of the State
for the Magistrates of our dif-
ferent jurisdictions and his high
care to avoid any kind of inter-
ference in the judicial affairs.
The cordial conversation  tur-
ned to the LABOR and RURAL
CODES recently voted by the
Legislative Chamber in. view to
prevent the arguments and dis-
cussions which can rise between —
the workers and the employers
and the disputes interesting the

people of our plains, the meat:

ers and farmers. -

The US. Minister-Counselor,
particularly, was impressed by
the cordiality with which’ he was

‘welcomed by the Minister Des-
| varieux and the personnel .of the
‘on, New Jersey and Erica Rapp, a Secretary from Newark, N wt Department who furnished him

Vall the

necessary informations
on the action of the different
section of the Department of ©
Justice and left visibly satis-
fied of his contact with the qua-
lified representants of the one
of our important ministerial -
Departments. eee

(Translated from _ “LE NOU-
VELLISTE”’ Sept. 27th, 1962).

 

 

‘
Next Door to the Town —

The collection of tolls becull
Friday morning . in the South
Zone of the, Capital at Martis-
sant, Friday morning, announ-—

s ‘Le Nouvelliste” in its edi-
tion of September 28th, 1962.
.The same operation began
Monday at the bridge of ‘‘Croix
des Missions’? added our coll-
eague.

 

SMALL TELEVISION CAMERA WITH
WIDELY VARIED APPLICATIONS

nial ese bi eee

This small television camera, product of a jeading British radio and television manufacturing!
concern, will be on show later this year at the International Trade Fair in Lagos.

It has a wide range of applications, being particularly suited to closed circuit television a
tion in industry and commerce; bit the quality of the picture it provides: jis such ‘that it is

« =e

    
SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

'New All-Steel Bridge At

Croix des Missions

 

‘tHAITI SUN*®?

 

PAGE 3

 

Opening Of Bridge Francois Duvalier

  

}

Engineer Roger Beauvoir Haitian director of Techint explains
the qualities of the new bridge during dedication ceremony Sept-
ember 22. Lt, Colonel Gracia Jacqyes, Commander of the Palace

, Guard is at right,

Minister Herve Boyer’s Speech At Dedication

At the inauguration of the
“Francois Duvalier Bridge’ at
Croix des Missions H. E. Dr.
Herve Boyer, Minister of Pu-
blic Works a.i., delivered a
speech from which HAITI SUN
wishes to extract some import-
ant considerations on the gener-
al policy of the Government.

«fr. President of the Republic,

ek

Sd

or

Secretaries of State,
Ladies and Gentlemen;

Today we wish to pay homa-
ge to those elections that have
made you the unquestionable
Chief of the Haitian Nation and
marked the end of a period of
disturbance after which the true
Haitian people, seriously alarm-
ed by the internal struggle
which has marked our history,
and the heavy social disparities
which fed division and _ bitten-
ness among the sons of Dessa-
lines, decided to make their
own destiny and to select its

most representative and authen-
tic “personalities to fulfill their

legitimate aspirations.

For 5 years your Government
has striven hard to accomplish
the promises of the former can-
didate of 1957, and ‘of the re-
elected man of May 1961, to
justify the confidence
people by the step by step real-
ization of their 159 year old
dreams. This bridge of Croix
des Missions, assembled and
completed within four months is
the best proof of your determi-
nation, “To civilize is to tran-
port’. This motto can be un-
derstood in the way of material
transportation of human beings
and products in order to ex-
tend welfare, and material civi-
lization to all, as well as in
the way of the  intejlectual
transportation of the knowledge
and fundamental concepts of all
the aspects of civilization.

It would be fastidious to re-

call the list of your government-

of the,

al realizations: in fact they may
be seen by everyone; and the
people know them. I only wish
to point out their useful aspect
in order to convince the skept-
ical persons that they are in-
cluded in the program of eco-
nomic promotion undertaken by
your Government.

Some people built palaces, ca-
thedrals as great _ ostentatious
works which can never belong
to the people of the back-coun-
try, these one can only admire
as marvels at a distance, not
belonging to their world...
in accordance with your pro-
mises, you. have chosen to im-
prove their conditions of life,
and improve their uneasy situ-
ation...

Who then can be astonished
of the solid fundations of your
Government?...

Because you have called the
people to cooperate closely with
the work of the national reno-
vation, this people can be proud
today to offer a positive list of
the realizations performed du-
ring five years of governmental
action and it can consider the
future with full confidence. This
cooperation was successful in
every respect; it has been able
to overcome the snares and sub-
duo the resistance and the mis-

understanding of the antipatri-
ots... who tried to cancel out

your activities... it favors the
progressive and systematic set-
ting up of the economic and so-
cial infrasiructure of the coun-
iry... And the people is decided
to tight alongside your Govern-
ment and to build its own desti-

ny.

At a certain moment in the
lite of a Society, what we call
a revolution appeared unavoid-
able. Ordinurily the revolution
breaks down into three steps: it
starts ‘first by fermenting in

But, «

 

 

. “ |

President Duvalier asking Engineer Beuvoir specifications of the
new bridge, The conversation was held in the middle of the bridge.

(photo Dietz)

_ of the Revolution’

the minds for a more or less ruins of the former one through
longtime, kept alive by the lead- the serene action of the leader.

ers;

events bound to every people’s. our
psychological make-up it reach- cult of them all,

then with the ot We are now in the last phase of
Revolution the most diffi-

It calls for

help

es crowds; and finally after the great courage, sacrifice, politic-
period of commotion, it enters al sense and consistency from

its

builds a new community on the to do away with the scories and country...””

constructive phase and the responsible leaders in order

the sequellae that any revolu-
tien necessarily carries along,
It is precisely this prodigious —

-and delicate work of decanta-

dion that the Leader of the Na- —
sion, the Honorable Dr. Fran:
cois Duvalier is doing. The task
is made all the more difficult, —
because at this Stage he must
expect desertions, deviations —

) and surprising turnabouts from
| the

insincere Jeaders, former

road companions who had in
their. mind nothing else but the
hidden motive of catching the i
revolution for their own person: —
al profit. In order to overcome —
their criminal purposes, he had
to and he must, perhaps, force —
himself and, in spite of his will, —
sacrifice some personal friend-

ships to preserve the interest of _
the national community. To ful-
fill this duty, he assigned to the |
pecple the duty of watching

and maintaining the acquisition
without any —
other consideration than the fut- I
ure of the Haitian Nation. And
these schools, these health cen- i
ters, hospitals, literacy centers,
this bridge we inaugurate today

and those roads that your Gov- —
ernment will certainly build

soon, are and will always be

the defence against the ambi-—
tious attempts of those who

seemed to have sworn themselv-

es to the destruction of the —

a

O° BADPDL DS DS Aad A a 0A aA od od A al bP > ®OS>>S>>S Ds 1 Ra RR La
~

q
«

   

4
4
<
<
‘
4

”~

<
<

SINGING SLO DG OS FEOF IE GGG GB LEB LOL LF GS BGO

FISHER’

CORNER SHOP

RUE BONNE FOI

HAITIAN MAHOGANY CRAFTS STRAIGHE

- FROM OUR OWN FACTORY

LIBERTY OF

CREDIT ‘CARDS ACCEPTED
FREE PORT PRICES

 

 

VOCUSING, COMPOSING AND

EXPOSURE

SETTING IN ONE

COMMON VIEWER—

REFLEX CAMERA Wilhr
NIKKOR 50mm F:2.5 LENS.

85mm SINGLE —LUNS—

Nikkorex

New At: LITTLE EUROPE

THE HOME OF EXQUISITE GIFTS

LONDON FABRICS — FRENCH PEREUMS
LIQUORS — JEWELRY — WATCHES

S

 

EGO’ GG-—DEGS SF

Yo

LGGSGY

 

 

 

  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 

QUALITY
OFFERED
ING
MEDIUM PRICE
CAMERA !
 

PAGE 4

 

—/

. Audubon Was Haitian

From Pages Of “HAITI SUN” A Decade Ago

WHO WAS AUDUBON?

The winner of the essay com-
petition is Mr, Anthony St. Cyr
who sent in the prize-winning
answer reproduced below. We
wanted to know what was the
connection between the great
American naturalist and Haiti,
and it as Mr. St. Cyr who best
unveiled the mystery.

Mr. Alfred de Matteis Fils,
local distributor of Audubon
paint will be pleased to present
the prizes of $10 cash and 3
eans of Audubon paint to the
winner. Will Mr. St. Cyr call at
the ‘‘Haiti Sun’, Monday, at 9
p.m.

Favourable mention also to
G. S. Martin, and to Clausel
Theard.’

This is in reply to note ap-
pearing in Haiti Sun’, August
23rd edition:

WHO WAS AUDUBON?
PROLOGUE

The identity of John James
Audubon has sometimes been
veiled in mystery. Some, and
among> them Alice Thyler, a
descendant of Audubon; tried to
associate him with the Dauphin,
_ son of Louis the XVI, but this

OPP PPI PVGPLSPGSVLEAAP POSS Y

wd

   
    

©
©
6
S

\

8

4
Ak
oe

&

*

r bon’,

COL CCLLECOLOOOOL

has been proven. false.

The information given below
was obtained partly from Oxilus
ougere, son of Belloni Fougere,
who himself was the younger
brother of Jean-Jacques Fou-
gere, later called Audubon, and
partly from the following auth-
ors, Francis Hobbhart Herrick
who wrote ‘Audubon The Natu-
ralist’”, and ‘‘Histery of His
Life and Time’’, and from Con-
stance Rourke’s bool ‘‘Audu-

WHO WAS AUDUBON?

John James Audubon, certain-
ly the greatest naturalist-paint-
er and ornithologist who ever
lived, according to Cuvier, was
born in the harbour of Les Cay-
es in the Colony of Saint Domin-
gue on April 26th, 1875.

Monsieur Fougere, rich mer-
chant established in Le Cap
Francois, did business with one

Jean Audubon, retired officer of!

the French Royal Navy who had
sone into business ‘ travelling
back and forth between his nat-
ive Nantes and Le Cap Fran-
cois. Here he sold French wines
and silks, and took back cane
sugar, and indigo. As a_ side
line, Monsieur Audubon also
prought in a few slaves which
he soJd in Les Cayes.

 

FROM APRIL 15 TO DECEMBER 14

- Hourly Rate (Minimum 4 Hours)
Daily Rate (24 Hours)

Weekly Rate

(RATES FOR SPORT CARS SLIGHTLY HIGHER):
ASK FOR QUOTATION ON LONG TERM RENTALS ©
YALL RATES INCLUDE:

Gas, Oil, Insurance and Maps
“NO EXTRA CHARGES FOR:

& Airport, Hotel, or Pier Pick-Ups or Deliveries

 

(HALT SUN”?

 

    
       
           
          
        
     
    
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER. 30th, 1962.)
Sy
en by some friends in Aux Cay4)
es while Belloni, was hurredly
removed to Jeremie. On his res
turn Jean Audubon who moang
ed the death of Antoinette, an

| Captain Jean Audubon, — still] great naturalist painter, ornitho-
young and enterprising natur-| logist and essayist. |
ally became enamoured of the
lovely young creature, Antoi-
nette Rabin, who kept house for
her grand father, Monsieur Fou-
gere. :

  

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON
EPILOGUE!

Melle Rabin bore Captain Au-
dubon a second son who receiv-
ed the name of Belloni Fougere.
She lived in Aux Cayes with
both her sons, but during one
of Audubon’s trips t6 France,
his ‘slaves revolted. Antoinette
lost her life and the two young
boys miraculously escaped
death. Jean-Jacques was _hidd-

  

  

[
perhaps that of Belloni hurried:
ly took Jean-Jacques back to
Nantes where he officially with
his wife, Anne Mynet, adopted
Jean-Jacques together with al
younger girl, Muguet, whom he}
also brought back from the Co-/
lony.

Things went on and finally
old man Fougere clamped down
a mean hand on the projected
wedding of Jean Audubon and
Antoinette Rabin, especially af-
ter he had discovered that the
captain was already within the
bonds of matrimony in Nantes!
Meanwhile, the hands of Desti-
ny had already earmarked Ma-
demoiselle Rabin as .an instru-
ment of its dectated. There up-
on following the usage of the
times, Miss Rabin was obliged}
to abandon her parent’s home.
We find her as passenger on
board an unamed schooner lea-
ving the port of Cap Francois
on April 19th, 1785, bound for
the town of Les Cayes, where
Jean Audubon also had business
connections. It is in the harbour
of Les Cayes, upon arrival of
the schooner in the early hours
of April 26th, 1785 that Antoi-
nette Rabin brought forth into
this world a boy to whom se
gave the name of Jean-Jacques
Fougere, Jean, after her lover,
and Jacques Fougere after her

 
 

A jSta (CYRaey ae

 

    

& UNICOS )
@ Tho only sweet LIQUEUR made in Scotland on © 1

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS:

 

  

maternal grand father with a :
whom she lived. This is the | x L. Preetzman-Aggerholm & Co.
child who latet became. the LOAD AIO OOO MN AA AM e

More people by far...use

HERTZ

Renta car.

% 1.00 plus 8 ¢ per Mile
$ 7.00 plus 8 c per Mile
$35.00 plus 8 c per Mile

‘ MG Roadster
FIESTA CAR RENTALS OF HAITI

HERTZ RENT A CAR

é LICENSEE |
». AUTOS. A., General Agents (Next to All America Cables) % —

360 Avenue Jean-Jacques Dessalines
Phones: 3184 — 2772
HOSTELLERIE DU ROI CHRISTOPHE
SUB-AGENT

P. O. Box 46 _ 4s
CAP-HAITIEN — HAITI “4
AGAGAL ED

OCC CRECCEOOESESY COOOG

 
 

 

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962 : CHALTI SUN?

“ye

bread or roast a chicken, with all the conveniences of
1 modern cooking range. The stove is called smokeless,

que FRATIIANHINGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER because it was first used in India (where today they

| re
Community Weekly Published Sunday Morning hyve inilfions) and CHR Cs the smoke out of the house Ae ii a

pee Ge : Se yaar »y a chimney projecting through the roof leaving the one a
cee petoaabie aa Sanna Ne of he eae einen ee ee clean-smelling. |
Se : he Smokeless stove cuts the househould budget b : nye
piles case canbe tas SEAS disposing with the use of charcoal. Any fuel Ak Py Inefficient Public
aS palm, fronds, sticks, grass, leaves can be used. It saves]! Tansportation —
WILDERNESS ENOW _ | one half of the amcunt of fuel that is consumed in an| System
i \ open fire, and half of the heat generated by the fue | ™ allthe capitals and big ci-

 

HAITI SUN

 

 

seemed to us a charming name. It is a smal! quiet vil-| the atmosphere to make Maiti siiil hotter.
1 é r tl 1 Vy i th which are a great help to- the
lage in the center of the plain we common y ca e} . This stove is designed for cooler days for the house: low-income people. These com-

Cul- -de-Sac. wites giving- her a chance to tidy up and modernize the} panies utilize tramways, buses,
_ Readers of facieny tell us that in colonial days aj kitchen, caille or house cut the expensive charcoal out| Coaches, and subways to safely

 

planter from  Croix-des-Bouquets”. There are other] Different openings. on top of the new stove allow the number Wecpeonle at the tase,

    
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 

‘ity. : . _ | only a little time. In fact it is like p!aying with mud {and receive all possible advan-

‘icr economic prosperity. It consists of about 1(0,000} out in the yard under a little shelter and it can be | ™Ucipalities.

|acres of good soils; soils of far greater fertility than} made portable by building on a table. Nearly a decade| In Port au. Prince, we have |
\the average in the World or of many parts of Haiti | ago Luther Ray a United Nations’ expert choose the |'2¢ ‘ ‘camionettes’! and the “‘tap=

here are considerable volumes of sub-surface fresh Marbial Valley for the launching of the smokcless taps"

‘water easily available for irrigation by tapping w-th| stove. He was enthusiastic over the response of the Coca oe tee ade ee
wells and pumps. The Riviere Grise, which meanders} people in this area. He said: The people came over the|tin and the other _nearby. out-
|through much of, the oe is seldom dry... nountains, down the rivers, they came from every-|skirts of the city. ‘All the ve--

where to help. I never had such co-operation in any |hi<les are owned by private per-

Moreover there is a canal that traverses almost the project before. The people know what they want and | °°°S: We have also an autobus

; h th hout
‘whole plain, from a gorge on its south-eastern. border] jeed in Marbial. It demonstrates that an effort in.mo- ee ae roughou

ee

esidential areas

orth-weast and reaches well beyond Croix-des-Bou-| out by its leaders to the highest degree. It will truly| operate to the satisfaction of its
| '|quets. Soil and water-conservation could greatly in- go down as one of the world’s model projects. customers, who have many rea-
|srease the volume of water available to this canal. » The smokeless stove can be made in many sizes. For | °°" for complaint. —
People talk of winds but there are equally strong] family, public kitchen, clinic, hospital or hotel. Com-| one of the main reasons is.
winds in the rich productive interior vallies of Ca ifor-| jete plans in both French and Creole were made avail-|the sudden absence* of one of
peia. The winds of the Cul de Sac have never been ‘of able at the UN headquarters on the Exposition in 1953.| the autobuses from circulation,
hurricane velocity in the history of the country. Gusts _ Why hasn’t this stove been adopted? with no advance notice or re-
f 20 to 25 miles per hour are experienced DeLee Tn NG pe a ae ees era dies aca for a missing he
: 1Cie, roopiem occurs ire-
inimized by tree plantings. quently ance the autobuses are
This rich plain is only 1,300 miles from the. richest very old. The passengers wait
: market in the World, with jet planes via Kingston 9 :

for a long time at the station
/honrs away; by direct jet-flight when the new airport located alongside the ‘Marche

 

jis ready, New York can be less than 5 hours away, : IDENTITY PHOTOS — PASSPORT PHOTOS Me sem ae oe

nl ning that au-

y A 1 Sa 5 z i

aking tomatoes, peppers and tropica products to mar- DEVELOPING — ENLARGEMENTS — REPRODUCTIONS | tobus “X”’ is out of order. For
\ket, the speed of delivery precluding spoilage. how long? Nobody can ‘say.

| ‘There are pleasant leisurely drives for a Sunday or FASTEST SERVICE IN TOWN | The second reason. for com-

“ ‘ill- z plaint is that the servic d

holiday afternoon. The plain, almost as “flat as a bill Avenue Marit-Seahine, No, § — Gite de VBxposition [Pp ice ends

yi ” = (Continued on e 16)
lard table is ringed with mountains to the south reach ss pag
Jing to 7,000 and 9,000 foot heights. The blue sk'es and PEt ODP CALQL ALL LL PAPADLOD,. SPL PLP PPL PAPE KK

 

      
        
  
  
  

 

   
 
   
 

 

  
 

} ficitting white clouds with slight breezes make a pleas- — ms
‘| ent place to philosophize in leisure. Visit the market- ¢ G R A ¢ E L J N E »
place of tremendous extension and activity on Tues- ¢ ©
| days or Fridays. Small growers come from 20 to 30@ ‘
| railes, ou foot or burro to sell or buy at this market. i ARE FOR HAITI ©
| Wise crack a-little with the people and you can have @ One Class y
IF ene unhurried fun and perhaps absorb a little eb : ©
‘| “sagesse Haitienne”; there are indeed things to beg NEW YORK — PORT-AU-PRINCE (DEPART yy
pened Bere. . | EVERY FRIDAY): .
‘

NEW STOVE COULD REVOLUTIONIZE CARGO SHIPS (12 PASSENGERS) $135 — ALL YEAR 3

THE HAITIAN HOUSEHOLD *
COMBO-SHIPS (52 Vas sey) “FROM $155 >

| One of the biggest fire hazards in Haiti is the open S 3
| eharcoal stove. Expensive charcoal is big business to PORT AU PRINCE NEW YORK(DEPART EVERY SUNDAY) >
)| thousands of “charbonniers”’, who are a cons tan ta ¢
)! threat to reforestration. The stove of the oe calles « LUXURY SHIPS: SANTA ROSA — SANTA PAULA ~ 8
Y | tle earth add intolerable heat to an atmosphere alrea- .
» often built indoors, consisting of three rocks and a lit- 300 PASSEN GERS E ARE FROM $195. 00 S
>|) ‘dy scorched by the Haitian sun. Besides being a major : ‘ e
Hive hazard ie buriis the pots and pans, causes severe GFOR INFORMATION ee ¢

Keye and lung trouble, and endangers the lives of the; 8
children. :
' The answer is a smokeless stove. A stove erected © osep Va ae 70
| simply at no cost, only a little time and the use of ag
"| pair of hands and some clay. A great boon to the Haiti- OR YOUR TRAVEL AGEN? &
an housewife it can be made with an oven to bake - QGLQEQCGCCCE AOU NAME COAL OOD &

 
   

Croix-des-Bouquets’ Wilderness Exow has a ways] which normally leaves an open fire and goes off into ties of the world, there are pu- -
blic transportation companies —

common metaphor in Paris was: “He’s as rich as a| of the budget, keep the dirt and soot out of the food. convey the largest possible” —

possible | cost. They are consi- |
evidences that it was one a most prosperous commun. cook various degrees of heat desired. It costs not’ iing’ | dered _first- hie public utilities, —

ES

To some of us it still seems to have great potentia: pies, it so easy to build. It can be built in the house, | ges from the Sa ete :

which’ carry passengers %

      

at ed a 9 oxetk le

mA ee
8 hn Geet —

  

 

eae ae

‘jnown as Basin General. The canal runs in general ivating the people to help themselves has been carried | of the Capital. But it does not —

See

e
   

Onee - Tiaecompanied to “the
James McCormick, a
ance journalist who work-
some New- York: daily

; ory” on. the. construction
ie Castle. When: he arrived
2. dungeon place,» “I. shown
_ corner where, according

 

Lo: the. legend, King Christoph:

‘used “to. ‘honor “his Aiea y
SYS” <a iaiee

—He had. “them? in the “Cila-
del,’ ‘asked ‘McCormick who* ad-
wed “what kind of food did he
give them?” 1

pT. don’t remember “what I an-
“swered, > but my ‘surprise was
great when two month | Jater, I

 

i
4

   
  

York Times” with the ‘first ar-
ticle of the journalist and read
“My guide took ‘me then to a
sanctuary where Wing Christo-
phe raised... his “African
_ GOATS.” eos

 
 

 

  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

 

Bia) Kw

La December 1947, Julian Hu
xley flew to. Cap-Haitien in com-
-pany® with Simon: Lando, of the
Jrrench ‘Institute of Port au

ranck. Lanoix and Emmanuel
Thezan Fils. Huxley then the
he Director General of UNES-
‘CO was offered. a’ trip +o the.
‘Citadel “by ~the late- President
_ Estime, as his personal guest.
Julien Huxley ‘took a lot! of
‘pictures of all the angles of the
Trortress. On one of. the para-
pets; ‘he was standing on ° the
sharp edge above’ a, precipice;
: I called his attention to the
' danger. “Oh, yes, thank you!”

   
 
 
 
 
 

take more pictures. But a mi-
‘nute later he forgot my warn-

the same ‘edge. I took him by

 

-

 

 

from 9
from 2:30 pm to 5

”

   

FOUNDED IN 1914 oy

 

we

pee wanted to. cover a:
name “associated. in.

‘| bassador —
the Citadel.

received a” copy of “The New

‘Ambassador and a political per-

Prince, Raymond Doret, ‘deputy |

FROM PORT-AU-PRINCE

he_said, and’ he came~a little}
back from the wall’s edge to

ing and returned very close to].

 

Permanent exhibition ‘hang on the gallery's Second
and a current show hangs in the gallery’s first floor.
Persons with an appreciation of art will be reward-
ed by visiting the Art Center.

Pe

By sete “T IENNE

the belt as fie was. on the Sait
of ‘going: farther, into the abys-
ses, and told him:

—-Excuse. me, ~Mr. Huxley,
but I don’t. want to have my
“the Press
reporting your “dramatic death!

~You may , be right, he and
flegmatically, but anyway ‘ ‘my”’
accident should” he'p the publi-
city of your Tourist Depart:
ment, don’t you think? —

é XXX)
Georges T. Brewer, then ‘Aue
of Liberia in Haiti
and William B: Fernan dez, ther
First Secretary ‘took a ride t)

ed their horses thought ‘they
were two colored ) gentleme?

from the U.S. They even found
some resemblance between the

sonality’ of the North ‘who was
then the Prefect (governor). of

@ap Haitien. One of them asked }
: | Luis Lico, Auguste Michel and

 

CACIOUE ISLANE
“IBO BEACH”
ONLY 30 MINUTES

ENTRY (INCLUDING
ROUND-TRIP.

Zz

BOAT
TRANSPORTATION)
ONLY $1.00

» Children = 60 Cents

Private Dressing” Koome

‘White Sand Beach:

 

CENTRE D’ART

NOTICE

Note To Ree Connoisseurs
The CENTRE D’ART is open “ALWAYS daily

‘am to 12:30 pm
700 pm

And Sundays by appointment.

storey
&

* Rac de la Revotution

(tH ALTI SUN?”

- Liberian
- now the Ambassador

‘Marcos. Perez-Jimen¢z ‘who be-

Je Hiitians Depered

 

The boys | who: guid: }

    
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
  

or five Haitian officers.
rally. I furnished all the
explanations of the Fortress in
Spanish, —a rather’ poor Span-

me if the visitor was ‘a relati- by four
ve of the ‘Prefect Theophile Na
Richard”, ‘The Secretary. of the
Embassy — who | is
— heard
his question and. said in perfect -\guide English’ speaking. people.

French: : At & certain moment, I was

—Oui, Monsieur, tous les Afri- ‘seriously ‘embarrassed when
eains sont freres ou. cousins. trying to ‘find out some Spanish
- (Yes, sir, ail the Africans are {erms; I apologized and asked

brothers or cousins.)

—What you aren't. Americans?
wondered the boy of Milot.
—No, we are Liberiahs, from”
Africa. And the best proof is
the close, resemblance you. un-
derlined yourself between my
Ambassador and your Prefect, A
replied My, Fernandez with a
Jarge smile.

xX Xx
On April “Ist 1948, Lt. Colonel

if someone of the group could

came. some month later: Presi-
dent of Venezuela and his” bro-
ther-in-law. Colonel Del gado
Chabaud who presided over the
Military Junta after the over-
throw of President Medina
came to Haiti and , visited the’
Citadel. I was the See of the’
group. who were accompanied ;

 

From D.R. Along With |
Dominican

Four Haitians arrived” from
Santo. Domingo aboard Pan Am
flight 432 September, 20th with-
out luggage, tickets, passports
or ‘any other documents.. They
Were clad in their work clothes
and minus” footwear.

The Haitians Anito Greriae
Jacques Lagort were deporied
by the’ Dominican authorities
from La Romana sugar mill
and accused of agitation.

Estachio Ramirez who .was
deported along with the four
Haitians identified himself as. a}:
Dominican national and was re-
turned by the next PAA planc
Eastward. Ramirez was also
without documents, lnggage or
tickets,

NEWS IN BRIEF

Nicole Calixte, F. ‘A. d’H,,
turned to Haiti September oe
1962 after spending one year at
the U.S. Naval Hospital, St. Al-
bans, New York. WO. Nicole |.
Calixte, is the first woman from
the Armed Forces of Haiti to:
be. sponsored by the U.S. Naval
‘Mission for schooling at a Uni-
ted States military facility.

WO Nicole Calixte completed
observership training in Anes:
thesia. She is currently assign:
ed with the ‘Service de. Sante’,
BS AeweH.

7

S GGDPPS SG

 

 

 

<

eke
The American Women’s Asso-
ciation of Haiti will hold its
next monthly meeting on Wedn-
esday, October 3 at 3’o'clock at
Pefionville Club in Bour-

~

OR OROK GOP loge Op ppp

&
~

UNE

the

interesting program has been AVEC
planned, when Mrs. Frank Car:
dozo, representing the Garden
Club of Haiti, will speak to the
members. A- large attendance
is hoped for, and new

ers are welcome.

i

don
~ After the business meeting, an
memb-

YX

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

ish— since I was mccustomed to~

DP erreeveryy. Leee
_ FRIDAY

 

FAMOUS CREOLE BUFFET

NATIVE FLOOR SHOW
DANCING TO THE MUSIC OF "TILE

CASTEL COMBO UNTIL

J
‘| 9RIDLADG SOSS Y

 

ESSO STANDARD OIL
_ LIMITED

VOUS OFFRE

PROTECTION

UNE ECONOMIE

ESSO. EXTRA
MOTOR OIL PREMIUM

DANS LE FERBLANC DORE

Ce GOOG” FOD SOLES OLA OCCAOO

5

ur derstand English, so he could

translate for me into Spanish.

as

--You can’ speak French, Ji-
menez declared, all of us we
understand this language
well as Spanish or English.

Believe me, it is not a “pois- —
son. d’Avril’’ (April fool joke):
Effectively, Jimenez and Del-
gado-Chabaud spoke fluent
French... :

 

NIGHT,

    

8 PM.

9 P.M.

12 P.M.
OMA

S; Ts

N

“EXTRA
EXTRA

ve in

PROD

XS POSS

ca aes Be

( 7
LOCCCEE LCL CCE

LOVE ,

.

ot ae

   
‘SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962 :

ey

TELE-HAITI WEEKLY SCHEDULE
FROM OCTOBER 1ST TO 8TH, 1962

 

MONDAY OCTOBER ist, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire fele-Haiti) g
9:59pm—Evening General Program Schedule & Weather Report
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English ‘
6.3¢pm—CARTOONS A
7:00pm—TOMBSTONE TERRITORY

7: 30pm—Children’s program (2nd part)
7:45pm—Telenews (Ist edition) Review of the day’s events
8:00pm—The FORD Show: FURY: “TOMBOY” —

8:30pm—The Campbell Soup Co. Program: SEA, HUNT:
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late. news, pre-

sented by the Esso Reporter : oor :
9:05pm—Powell Industrial Works’ weekly program: ‘‘I Love Lucy”
“RICKYS OLD* GIRL FRIEND” : Se

9.35pm—ROSE MARY CLOONEY Shcw :

10: 00pm—Close of program. — National .Anthem

‘TUESDAY OCTOBER 2nd, 1962

9: 30pm—Musical Program “(Mire Tele-Haiti)

5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule

6:00pm—Let's Learn English

6:30pm—Children’s Program,-ist Part

CWALT? § UN

8:00pm—ALFRED HITCHCOCK presents: “FOG HORN”

 

 

8.30pm- Le Lern:er des Mohicans presented py “Baugue Com- Visitor In Town e

merciale d’Haiti: “THE SOLDIER”

9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-

sented by the Esso Reporter
9:05pm—MADEMOISELLE DE PARIS
9: 35pm—GUN SMOKE

-|10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

SATURDAY OCTOBER 6th, 1962

5:30pmi—Musicai Program (Mire Tele-Haiti) ee
5:55pm—Evening Program Schedule oN
7:00pm—WELLS FARGO TALES
7:30pm—Children’s Program. fs Ri é
7:45pm—Telenews (1st edition) Review of the day's events
§:00pm—M SQUAD: “DAY OF TERROR” | :
8:30pm—La Pan American World Airways presents: LES 4 JUS.
TICIERS: “THE BRIDGE” Reg e ee g ae
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the ate news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporte . :
9:05pm—TELE-SPORT ~ ne te ae
10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem
SUNDAY OCTOBER 7th, 1962
12:30pm-—Musical program — Mire Tele-Haiti
1:00pm—Program Schedule \
1:05pm—Widen your knowlcdge

Mo

7:00pm—NOBBE & BONDEL presents: MY THREE Sons: —| 20pm-—Children’s Program

aif: “BUB GOES TO SCHOOL’
7:30pm—Children’s program: second edition -
7:45pm—Telenews (1st edition) Review of the day's events
8: 00pm—America speaks to you
8:30pm—TelecInema (st part) —
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre
sented by the Esso Reporter
9:05pm—Telecinema (Cont'd)
10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

» WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 3rd, 1962
x
5: 30pm—Musical Program (vure Tele-Haiti)
5:55pm—Evening General Prograin Schedule
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English
6:30pm—CARTOONS j
7:00pm—NOUVELLE SERIE: LOCK UP
7:30pm—Children’s Program, 2nd Edition :
7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the day’s events
§:00pm—DESTINATION DANGER: “THE TRAP”
8:30pm—M & S Construction presents: BAT MASTERSON.
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd editiom) Summary of the late news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporter
9:05pm—Le Pavillon des Varietes presented by the Curacao Tra-
_. ding Co. : 3
9:35pm—GUY LOMBARDO Show :
10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

THURSDAY OCTOBER 4th, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haili)
5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English
6:30pm—Children’s Program
7:00pm—STATE TROOPER with Rod Cameron: “ONE THAT
‘DIDN’T GET AWAY”

7:30pm—Children’s program (2nd edition)

7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the day's events
8:00pm—Germany Today

$:30pm—TELECINEMA ist Part
9§:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-

sented by the Esso Reporter

9:05pmi—Telecinema (Cont'd)

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

FRIDAY OCTOBER 5th, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Yele-Haili)
5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule

 

2: 00pm—Tele-Journal

3:00pm—USANA Program: Destination Danger: “THE ACTORS”
3:30pm—WAGON TRAIN: “THE BILL TAUNEE STORY”
4:30pm—Telecinema

6:00pm—End of program — National Anthem.

.

of HAITI

ART Gallery
on fue du Quai

“Seulptures by Paintings by

R.FRANGOIS Cedor

J.puPerrier J;E-Govrgue
V. Denis

O.vu Perrier L. Lazard

ADimancne J: Gabriel
; N.dean

 

>[—Miss Loretta B. La Dew, a —

"| week. She is guest at the Hote

—Commander Robert Engram,
of the U.S. Navy arrived yes-
terday to inspect the work of
the Seabees (repairing the
wharf). Commander Engram
"who is here on a short visit is
accompanied by Lieutenant Paul —
Bredtmiller; of_the USN. They |
were met at the airport by Lt.

Gene Peltier... - ea

*

dress. designer of note from ~~
Chicago is back here again this- _

  
 
 
   
  
  
 

| Choucoune, She~is being tutor-

-|ed by Victor Greger... Reta
—Mr. Charles Hospodar is. also
back. this. week... a,
—Miss- Henriette’ Menko’~ from :
Enschede, Hollandand Jopie
Roos, from Amsterdam are *
staying a few. days at the Cast-
elhaiti. se :

 

 

 

Agents. ieee
JOSEPH NADAL & Co. —

———.

 

LUNCH DINE HAV
COCKTAILS
Uxcellent Lobster Dishes
A SPECIALITY . \

 

By The Sea-Side -
ae At
KYONA BEACH |
Have Your Party At
KYONA

Swim, Spearfish, Snorlde,
Water-Ski And Sail
In Safe Coastal Waters —

From KYONA.
DEEP-SEA FISHING
EXCURSIONS

yi

LF OO?
EF)

Wid )

aitit's “Gingerbread Palace” and famed kostelery — the Grand ifotel Oloffson, show place on
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English Maite Omee

6:30pm—Children’s Program ae : : -f frantnalcinat
6:45pm—PHIL SILVERS Show: “HAIR” | Haitian architecture, exquisite cuisine and contented living. Set amongst a myriad of tropical frees >

7:15pm—E] Rancho presents: The Night Club La Ronde. Orchestra

7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the day’s events ss gardens the Qloffson, complete with miniature pool, is the haven for the uninhibited.

Tne
PAGE 8

 

 

 

(Continued from last editton)
* That the. current eye on
should. be characterized as ‘in
flux’’ seems clear. "Baring: som?
major, change in the internation-

 

Textile Imports And Loc al Industry

Haiti’s
Traa

 

 

   

 

jme that “there is dahgér ‘of the
first policy’ being adopted, more
or less by. default. There is-rea-
son. to. doubt whether an inter-

nal shorlage..can raise prices

,argest Imp

-nufacturers could show ~ ability

 

PAGE 9

represent clear-cut evidence as
to market possibililies, a very
important consideration in any
poor country. And, most impor-
tant of all, subsidy by tariff is
politically feasible, whereas out-
right payments almost never
are. Finally, it seems to me

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962 eHATTI

 

 

 

the bi-product gains in the form
of training workers to manufac-
turing methods and developing
entrepreneurial talent “represent
‘invaluable assets.

Nor does it Seem to me that |
it is any answer to propose “as
an alternative such measures as

situation does not justify
higher import duties. This judg-
ment is nol-one based on_ prin-
ciple but rather on tactics. In
general, the arguments for care-
ful use of protective tariffs to
stimulate local manufacture in
a country like Haiti seem veny

obtain fuller use of plant, spe-
_|culateur contacts, and executive
abilities—particularly in light of
the seasonal nature of the cof-
fee business. But one suspects
that it goes beyond this. In part
it may well be tied up with the
general rivalry situation among

ce that the situation is shaping
up so that expansion will take
place without further public ac-
tion. It must always be held
in mind that protective meas-
ures often have unfortunate re-
sults in the form of permanently
high priced — products if the

   
   

ee are ready to take, rent
on th)much more complex pro-

blem} involved in producing
lightq cloth of the diversity of
pattq} and color that current-
ly. eflvens drab~ peasant ‘life.
On whole, the argumenis
for ging ahead, and dealing

  
   
  

   
  
 
  

    
 
   
 

and work. = a society thew
know and in one: they have

   
   
 
  

 

manufactured locally, if the ma-

io expand output and meet in-| an established — position. One the big four coffee producers, | with |psultant problems if and] strong to me. a general subsidy to all employ-| that, with the prapensity to. im- wrong industry is protected or
ternal need quickly and at a suspects that the concept of|murther, the decline in coffe> | Whenjfhey arise, seems to be] The basic reason, of course,|ers of manufacturing -labor.| port as high xs jt is in Haiti, if there is not enough rivalry
“reasonable price”. The meas- | non-competing — groups, long-re- | prices may have something to} a styy one. - fis the judgement that it is pos-|'(This proposal is made in order| in the initial development stag- | within the industry to bring
are was aimed primarily at the] cognized in labor market theo: do with it. And finally, less tinal ‘Word - On The ’ sible’ to draw. resources into that export industries” ‘and. those | = eS subsidy via careful~ use of price down and increase output

‘extile importers. The law was happy, relationships betweea go- , a use which are cither idle-or ex- which have: always been domes-| tariff will cost government very | as ~ efficiency This

ry, has its counterpart 4 in. eapi- increases.

piective Tariff Issue

poorly. drawn up, without con- | tal markets,” vernment and the two. establis’ af ‘| tremely unprod: active, Primari-| tic. will not be. ‘discriminated little revenue. This assumes, of last danger is a peculiarly real
sulting any of the interest con~ a : Fae ee a ed firms _ may play a part. Thdfuestion of: Japanese tex- | ly this means labor; “but. Tam against.) Exporting ‘manufact-| course, that export volumes are one in’ small countries “where
cerned, and seems to be anex-| To complete the picture of a | tiles#fds’ naturally to the: pro-| also satisfied that-it often. also. ures “in the early stages ‘of de-| unaffected and depends upon the | the size of the domestic market
ample. of an increasing Haitian} situation in flux, two other de- |» The “final ingredient —in- the tectivfariff issue. On the who-|ineludes capital cand — perhaps velopment | seldom is feasible tariff rates on the import cate- | does not Justify the existence

rendency to prepare major leg-| velopments should be mention- boiling spot of the Haitian cot-| em feeling is that the cur- even I and. resources: In adit ion: anyway. In addition, imports do: gories to= which eee is: re- of a large number of firms, any- _

 

 

al- situation, enough so that»the market on islation in secref, publish it as} ed. The -Reinbolds,. -who before | ton and -€otton textlie industry | z e chanelled. way.
that Haiti can look’ forward in }mulus (alone and unaided): ve ‘aw, and then see what the-re-| the War owned the largest gin is the possibility that the discri-}| THEY SPHAK BE RENCH, CAN TRAVER See ae sans ee The current situation inna In the current sitiation a
the next few years to cotton! bring an. adequate increase in action is. As has been the fate}in Haiti, are showing definite | minatory tariff against Japan cs. || aoe ear: erercae as, oe He ae SNe ihe ere 35. tat textiles it ‘seems “to: me. ‘wait and see’? approach seems
prices at least ten dollars low-| supply. Rather, it “seems more of several such measures, it was | interest in. reestablishing them| ese ‘textiles will be allowed | Ra is somewhat special. In the first | called for. Tt_ may well be that
~ er than the $35 per 100 livres}likely that rising prices’ to the soon ‘held in abeyance’’. ‘| selves in>the cotton export and lapse. Just» “what the effect of ‘DI _*place, there is a good deal of a few years from now the real
average of most of-the 1950's. | grower’ will bring: about over-} “ay, immediate reaction to the) oil refining business. (In the} this would be, it is difficult a! To aise | Jai ian | cane protection already. ‘Transporta- | issue will be whether or not to
It is possible that they. might} whelming. political Res eeuee to law, _ however, was ~ extremely post-w: ar period they Success~) say. Certainly Japan would Lg- | - tioh costs run ten per cent of use an increase in textile dut-
be even below that if the U.S.}permit import. interesting. Both textile mills] fully reestablish themselves in present an attractive ican: 3 6 f.0.b. or more ands the present ies as an indirect way of. sti-
sticks to the announced policy : came forward with expansion} coffce and are now the largest} ive for low-priced Iron Curtain A His ( suinean | ial orer 374 revenue tariff represents a wall mulating cotton growing, to sup-
of reestablishing and maintain- iternatives are a direct ef ea and entered into a_vitri- exporter.) Again the question | prints. ‘Japanese price policy es

of at least 27 percent c¢.i.f. Two ply a rapidly expanding textile

iC eh to improve peasant practi-
" | 7 industry.

ing its historical share of the olic debate with the importers} of motivation is an interesting} less likely to be capricious, ard mills are well established, and

EB

  

 

_it seems &
his
'
i

|
world market. This, of course, aes and SHUIS te Sp eee ena ane ability of the mills to; one. The outlook on world, cot-| personal contact and - selection. DREW Ee ved: in Cuba could. sneaks across be another Congo, right ander) = Ghove isa good deal of eviden- By Prof. WILLIAM BATES
increases the difficulty. of re-j ther experiments” with planta- | * satisfy domestic requiremeats| ton prices could hardly be call-|so important to the Haitian ae +the windward ‘passage to Haiti} the nose of. the United States.
versing the decline in Haitian’ tions; and, or indirectly per- in the cloth lincs they were pro-| cd bright.-And there have cer-| market, would be. much more Wa igton. — The most. fan by. plane or pore at night: to Note = The U.S, Navy aoe ;
cotton growing. Also, it may|milting an increase in price. t) ducing, As might be expected, | tainly been times when the ge-| feasible. For a country as poor pay ere of ane Pe me q ngle with ‘French-speaking: trolling . the Windward Passage asi e@ 39 e
well increase interest in mill! the grower by raising duties on the importers fought the law|neral political and cconomic| as Haiti, it is. difficult indeed muni puildup in Cuba may be Haitians and help to make if| to watch for Cuban Ships head- Soaping a dulis hair
use rather than export. types of ¢loth produced locally. vigorously (strongly supported | climate in Haiti was- more fa-| to justify self-denial of any low- |“ lit ipuced concent eton. of He a Communist Slates ed for Haiti. However, it would entered nctesy fydieeencm : =
As the situation is shaping up,} This might well mean more o* by an assortment of foreign Of} vorable’ cost cotton cloth supply. If the er eeesculiers from ue This- writer several aes has | be difficult to spot and StORe iH I I afi mt?
a domestic cotton shortage isjless permanently giving up the! i231 and private advisors to! In part the answer seems to| main impact is on prints, the ) SE! Becupe of Guinea. | reported, following a trip ©) small fishing vessels at night aa ne ¢ aE ies I e
in prospect within a few years. | possibility of cotton~ exporting the Haitian Government). The}be simply an attempt by a re-| threat to local manufacture will They cal iE: rench. | Haiti, that it is the Tpest spot which could smuggle Guineans : ; bs
Currently the mills are using, and would certainly mean higit | resting thing, however, was| atively new and growing firm} be minimal. It will probably -be Ue, ; Sougee the Western Hemisphere for) into Haiti a handful at a time.
over half of the average crop.}er cloth prices. The conclusion that, even the victorious, the) {o round out its activities and| some years before Haitian ma-|. Life it has. been reported | Communist revolt. Haxli could] (From the ‘Miami ~Herald’’)
Plans are under way for expan-|—there is a crying need for an importers. interpreted the law 2 sty int ress that these Guine-
sion and even for-<establishmen! | effective cotton expansion pro [i {ans “cane- -cutters’’, nothing:

 

could more

 

 

   

 

 
 

 

 
      
     
  
 

of new mills. A. three shift op-) gram, right now. ‘owed its publication, as ‘“‘hand- e absurd than. to :
eration. by the Brandt’ plant -writting on the wall’. In gene- bring frican cane-cutfers to a =
alone would more than’ wipe! Government in Haiti seems. to al, their feeling was that the counf which has more cane- ze
out what remains of the rop.|be moving toward policies hav-) 1a was indeed a black one we eT i cutramian any.-country. in. the | ODETTE WIENER
“Very soon a major issue muy}ing the effect of Oe sales they went into manufac- hy worll ete Er oe : f : ~~ Presents _
re ecome whether to import} tile imports. Warly in’ 1959 aj, » did they fear = ee speale Guineans imported lo na Sn ne of
Nice or to Taunch a. real ex-|law was published which for- Se of a Sb Ne Spanfspeaking Cuba for ma- TROUPE | DE DANSE BACCULOU D’HAITI

1 * ‘ , 5s “a. iF ny) ae ? z ayer
bad the import- of any prod.ct somewhat similar nature, but nual}bor doesn’t make sense.

i “Iso a full-scale attempt by the

seems to;

 
 

pansion program. It

Every Wednesday Night
FEATURING HAITTVS MUST texUlTING

« TY

2)

 

    

and the violent fight which :

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
  

  
     

  
   

    

 

 

 
 

 

 

    
 
 

   

   
  

           
 

           
  
 

   
 

: HA Bi Frese) sesiane Guine-
i by-pass them by malk- s anto ‘BLUE Ne fle e
ee ae to the retail- opt aes At aS His ans {agents to stir up revoli- GROUP OF ENTERTAINERS
ae The net result was a band- on the label tion French speaking Haiti, BACOULCGU CABARET THEATRE
ing together of the larger im- ae Eo THUGS Aces aS (free Meringue Lessons at 9:30 p.m.)
porters and negotiations with (ee EieiS from “Cuba, PETIONVILLE =— HAITI _
the government looking ee oes pike sense, : : 2
establishment of a gin —oi Cs : oy
: : ‘ 5 Gu is the African country
a le mill. costing \ :
= MES Cociad of a million closefo the Soviet bloc. When | ff
Ee bea ee es the Inch: departed two years I a
d a half dollars. j
Whee “Zermed te. te Tteadaa ago,fsident Sekow Toure ay-(] ATTENTION! iL YOU...
ale id crack at th - pealdio the United States for
was a good solid crack at the ou aes ;
chambray market. Interesting- aid, | when the State Depart- ao Who Love Your P ets
5 : menifinder Eisenhower, was ace ie 3
ily enough the importers ‘felt Ae ie Se i A ; : ;
that they could establish the }” S | oh Se oe x N OW AVAILABLE |
e ] without —fur- ESE y 5 So :
special government assistance. | ' {1,200bmmunist techni cians Vlea- Go. Powder & Laid Soar 3
‘| What will come of these nego- and fisers were flown into ~ (fleas, ticks and lice) : a NEES Soap chee a
2 f yy : st = 1 Y d@ soap, ft 5
tiations is not yet clear. Guu bey “have been - there Other Veterinary Supplies ee Se E Gives fragrant
: everace, : : : cream—RHalo cannot Ssoft-iater” lather
7 1S leave dulling, dirt- 5 eee
It seems to me that there is : ie 2 z A 4 S WS seat ; —needs no special rinse!
- an important point here of some | Th€rench-speaking Guinean SEeUP E vas N= catching soap film! ;
r . ; e tp een a ‘ ree LUC Onne -
Ref, 7317 «Nec Plus Ultra» of selfwinding general theoretical interest. The : | cangters” now concentrat- : ¥
2 Gs - 3g pee ee ee investment eee for the ioe Pa { 2 +h Tee rn ie Removes embarrassing SR mA Tutplenveshaie soft,
Ble PECs CHG BEDOED ets G0 5 eat cae cae importers is to find some means Ty : aay dandruff feom both hair yon manageable—shining with
«Selection » models at foremost jewellers. - | of meeting an attack on a long: “in Soul rh antl din dyivahid d io. J cap! : & i& Mp; es (natural highlights!
5 established economic position, i aie Sas aC
-|rather than sudden recognition g ngage fe - ;
of a profit opportunity. Much] ~ Portvau prince 00) a Yes, “soaping” your hair with
the ‘same can be said of the ; Si PORT RINE even finest liquid or oily ¢ rene : |
long series of investments by i “| Ge shampoos leaves dullinge h arges
ster Hine ats saeles Y ea Mivavitiiiy Uainyalt (The Farmer
pea ARC pte oe ea cg te Re Ee - a new ingredicnt, contains
a ae Pee no an = = “ : no soap, no sticky oils. me ing
UGS ROL ae = a Serene i Thus Halo glorifies your hair ]
z ponsive to theoretical alternat- ~ ‘ 5 XQUISITE SevEss WS orcuRe ats sila poo
= : % ive yield possibilities ‘as some Rus Ask for Halo— America’s in
oe, as oe an ;
ON SALE AT THE. | jess pou te ie ote) on Bbncoust ni SUPERB AND FAwous|| firme “America
g J : lieve. Particularly in underde-} °° S A .
BEEFLTLE RS TORRES oe Served Exciusivety at Haiti's Leading pte Goods ane gold Sisal.
‘| sociated with people who have | Pony aK TER ATAL? —
es experience in specific industries , HOTELS Ke RESTAURANTS. & BY USE ABN EOS Storesin-the U. 8. PHONE > 2684% Halo reveals the hieden beauty of the hairl
5 a and trades TUR OUSHSUE THE WORLD f 2 H-61-I- EL’

-and who wish to live

 

nen

               
PAGE 10

 

CREA BA

U.S. ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES

Captain Al Laporte arrived
from the Infantry School, Fort
Benning, Georgia on September
5 to replace Captain George

Crist as Naval Mission _Assist-
ant G-3. Captain Laporte and
: his wife Joan are staying at
the Hotel Montana.

Xekea
After spending approximately

The family cf Captain Tom
(Sully) Sullivan, Naval Mission
Military Police Advisor, spent

a busy week celebrating biith-
days. Son Tom Jr. became 7
on September 8, daughter Su-
san was 3 on September 11, and
daughter Katherine had her
first birthday September 14.

xX X X

SUN?

?

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962 |

 

Social Activities

Orville and Phyllis Wilson’ of
the Embassy entertained the
General Services staff at a poo]
party at their home September
9th.

PEG
Mrs. Naoma Baumun, wife of
Harold Bauman, ~ Agricultural

Economies Advisor at. USAID,

m. English-language service
through September. Beginning
in October, the English service
will return to the 10:30 hour.

The Methodist Church on Ave.
de Ja Revolution holds
glish-language service each
Sunday at 11:00 a.m, The pu-
blic is welcome.

‘

an En-].

Servants’ quarters; view of city
and bay. $150. Charles Fequiere,
Telephone 4124,

X XX E
For Rent: 2-bedroom house,
Debussy, view of bay;  unfurni-

shed except for kitchen which
is complete. Contact Miss Car-
ter, Personnel, Office,’ USAID.

 

ihree weeks at the U.S. Naval Harry Christie, Disbursing Of }left for a one-week visit to Renae

Hospital at Guantanamo’ Bay, ficer at the Embassy, had a} Washington, D.C. | POR SALE, RENT OR HIRE xxx

Staff Sgt. (£-6) Robert Leves-} birthday on September 13. For Rent: 2-bedropm house} For Sale: Coldspot air condi-
que, Naval Mission — Infantry Fi og | at Martissant; 2 baths, kitchen; | tioner,- 11000 BTU, 115V, excel-
_ Weapons Repair Instructor, was XXX Mr. I. John Javrotsky, Assist-| jpon grilles on all windows, | Jent condition. Sgt. Rachel, Na-
transferred by Service Records} The new Deputy Chief of Mis- ant Program Officer (Planning), swimming-pool, water all day.| val Mission Air Section ;

to the U.S. Naval Hospital,} sion of the Embassy, Mr. Edw.| flew to the Statés September 7] = Ko TERT an “ aes

e

 

Glion Curtis, celebrated a birth-

Chelsea, Massachusetts on Sept- :
day September 8.°

ember 5. It is expected that he

because of his» mother’s death. | ~
/| We. offer him our sincere sym-

     
 

will undergo extensive treat- pathy.
ment and possible surgery for Xe X ‘Time: takes ona rosy hué
. dislocated vertebrae. ~ Mr. Richard Lippezcott, AID PX Kx
aa 3 : Chief; Office of Caribbean and| Chuck Briggs, son of Dr. through the sapphire ite
Soe Mexican Affairs, arrived in| Charles Briggs, Chief, Educa-| of your Movado “ Firmament” watch

    

Mrs, Guilda Scott,. senior dis-] Port au Prince August 31. Mr.| tion Division, and Mrs. Briggs,

}

 

bursing clerk with USAID. —j Earl O.. Finnie, Mission -Direct- spent the summer vacation in
Ifaili was transferred to the}|or, accompanied him to the Ar-|]jaiti with his parents. He re-

_ Disbursing Section of the Em-]|tibonite Valley area 01 Septem-} {turned to the U.S. September

 

Sik bassy on Sept. 1st. ber 1; He returned to Washing-}{st, to begin his sophomore
a ae ton September 3. year at the University of Penn-
S XXX ; sylvania.
oer Mrs. Solange Darbouze, USA- XXX Pyar
ID accountant, gave birth to a Dr. Edward I’. Crippen, Pub- “Captain <Don.. Layne, Naval
‘son, Adrien Jr., at Canape Vert] lic Health Physician, .Cap Hai- Mission Commitee none Mavic:
Hospital, August 28. Congratu-| tien, departed September 7 for or hig cwife “Betty, and” their|
‘Jations to the happy parents! consultation in AID — W. . ineee daughters returned from

leave in the U.S. September 2.
Most of their time was spent
visiting relatives in Washington,
D.C. and Cleveland.

   
    
  
 
 
  
  

«
XK X
Passengers on the weekly lo-
gistics flight to Guantanamo |
Bay on September 4 ended up} The Movado sapphire crystal Ref 2554, :
spending a night away from \_ gleams with a rare brilliance. mon tet look",

Its hardness is surpassed
only by that of the diamond,
You will cherish your

Movado which offers you. a z

their families and out of Haiti
when storms prevented the Na-
vy plane from landing at Bow-

gold figure dial

 

en Field on its return flight. precision thrice triumphant Ref. 148,
TROPICAL "GAS COMPANY. INC. Hasty efforts on the part ol ib three yeats (at tie official <_alniature mies,

Swiss Observatory at

Guantanamo Bay personnel ma- gold figure dial

   

 

 

. Makes everyday a “Holiday” in your kitchen... Use Rede ee haa conte Neuchatel).
the “Gold Star Award” winner, the TROPIGAS range. Bcarnicht cacoomine enone £01
_No finer range anywhere today . the base: for the twenty or so
“displaced Haitians.’’ The pla- a ons S a
EFEFLEX TOP BURNER — A single flame with|ne returned to Port au Prince)» S ca
countless accurate stages of adjustment for every cook- without incident ithe . following i :
mg need — from fast t hoiling or frying down to gentle Poet MOVADO-~
ee 3 eS, iivuaici
The Embassy has open a :

snack bar on September 24 for
all employees of U.S. Govern-
ment agencies. Mrs. Marie Ni-}

EQUAFLO OVEN BURNER — Makes possible new
perfection. Heat is spread in a rectangular pattern, the
shape of the oven and broiler. No hot center, no cold

ONE SALE AT MAISON ORIENTALE
AND LITTLE EUROPE

 

 

 

 

 

; chols, whose catering “service
eee is widely enjoyed, will be in °LLLLLLYLLY ECDC LOTTE
bi ; _.|charge. Hours are tentatively & a
8 PIN POINT PILOTS — Cool, cconomatic Pin Point] sct for 10:00 to 1:00, The snack & a
: Pilots are only one third the size of ordinary pilots —| bar is located in the room form: & A S I WN O
a flame so tiny it keeps range cool in any weather, and | erly pete by the SOMES
saves you money, too. BL ra :
* \ = ‘ The Direction of the Casino inierneiianal take
on if Fe euen : . : A XX X Spe ies aR ey aaa
, HUGE OVEN with visualite window. eck oiamicnominational: San: ~ Hee - present to its amiable clients the Spec-
LIFT TOP BURNER and PULL-OUT BROILER for | day School for, all ages opened @ acle of the Season:
easier, more thorough cleaning. 2 for the fall season September iit : Ks ee
f S : Pes 9, The Sunday School meets Se “FOLIES ANTILLAISES”’
KCONOTROL BURNER makes every ustensils au- from 4:00 to 5:00 Sunday after: X in the lime-light, the Falkloric Troup of the p Casino |
- tomatic noon at the Unevangelized Fields
5 Mission head-quarters at Bo © % los
losse, Port au Prince, Bas ey AT MIDNIGHT
Lifetime guarantee of all burners. Fort Mercredi. Children from 3€ _ CHOICE MUSIC BY 6p
Too many features to fist here. You must see it to| to 15 are included in the class- © SHE CASINO INTERNATIONAL ;
appreciate it. Easy terms too. es, and an adult Bible class 8 directed by the 2

held for parents.
eka
| The Holy Trinity Episcopal v s

Church will continue its 7:00 a. €% Oo COO CxO om CAGAGACAGAS COCO

~

® MAESTRO QUESNEL DUROSEAU

~

    

"TROPICAL GAS COMPANY, INC.
RUE PAVEE

  

SOs aN

   
Fay PE ey, ate Fay gh ars

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER
| Often Rots On Tree In

30th, 1968

 

Haiti

 

From far away Hawaii come
some glamorous recipes for
using guava. Much of this pung-
ent fruit often’ goes to waste.
Too}many people, farmers and
even the urban dwellers” do not
know how to utilize euava.

ete

   
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
      
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

Few fruits. exceed the guava
in vitamin ©. Juice of non-acic
guavas is often given to babies
who can not tolerate acid juices

Fresh guava and’ fresh grated
coconut make a dessert you-wil
want to serve your family ane
friends © often,

And guava combines: well wit?
many fruits to be found hr aoe
markets: now. i
- . The distinetive guava flavo
is often modified when the: frui
is cooked or used: with
_ foods, ‘So although you may no
“jike’ the fresh guava flavor yo"
‘are almost sure to like’ som:
of the products; jelly, marma
lade, frosting, chutney or sau
ce. ; i

Make Use Of Your |
Guavas By Treating

‘

Tempting Dishes

Aloha Punch:—

2 cups’ sugar

4 cups water

2-two third ‘cups —unsweetene
a ZUAVA juice : SAE SE
¥ 2-two third cups orange juice
| 1 one third cup lime juice’

pineapple 1
Boil sugar and water for 3
minutes. Cool and add fruit juice
and pineapple. Pour over crack-
ed ice or ice cubes before ser-
ving. Makes 12 servings of 1
cup each. In this recipe 1 small
can frozen orange juicge plus 3
| cans of water can be. substitut-
} ed for the fresh orange juice.*
Guava Delicious | >»
| 2 cups thinly sliced guavas
4 Half a cup sugar |
D2 large ripe bananas
| Three quarters cup grated co-
- conut
Frat a cup whipping” cream
\} Select only the best quality
} ripe guavas.':Wash, peel, and cut
} into halves. Scoop out the seeds.
} Slice guava. shells thin. Sprink-
mie sugar over the sliced. gua-
7} vas. Peel bananas. - Brush with
‘lime juice to preserve color.

_ Use individual serving dishes.
Put alternating layers of sliced
guavas, bananas and grated co-
Feonut. Chill for 2 to %™ hours.

When ready to serve garnish
}with whipped cream Makes 6
i servings.

|) Guava Puree

in half.
remove

Pee] guavas and cut
Use a teaspoon. and
Vseeds. Cook guava shells in
small amount of water until
tender. Press pulp through a
finé sieve or food press.

Fresh guavas may be pureed

othe—|

The Family Of These.

| { one third cup fresh shredded:

eo ,
—————E

———

if they are full ripe. g puree
‘may be used fresh, or may be
frozen or canned for future use.

Guava Mouse

|1 cup fresh guava puree
‘| 1 tablespoon’ time juice —
Three quarter cup sugar |
2 ee half cups whipping cream
“or
L cup evaporated milk and”
halt “cup whipping cream :

7

Paes sugar and lime juice to

puree. A If evaporated milk. is”
‘thoroughly - Before :

used chill
whipping. Pour chilled milk or
cream into a. chilled bowl. Whip

' antil it thickens. Fold in’ guava

mixture and freeze, 4 to 6 hours.

Giusva Sauce Cake =

One third cup. fat
1 cup brown sugar 5
i egg to

L cup aauesieced guaya, sauce

2 cups flour

me third cup milk

© half teaspoon cinnamon

. half teaspoon cloves

4 half teaspoon nutmeg pS
L teaspoon salt Se

3 teaSpoons baking powder

a\ half cup pecans, cut small
a quarter teaspoon soda

Cream the fat and~ sugar tho-
soughly. - Add the remainder 0.
the ingredients with the soda
dissolved in the guava sauce

greased and floured loaf pan
Bake in slow oven, 300 degrees

may alsa, be pokees in 2 layers. |

Raisins. : “may be
be omitted entirely. A dusting
of powdered sugar is sufficient
icing, but the most delicious for
any ee ane guava cakes: is lime

Lime Butter Icing ‘

Lime Butter Icing

2 cups powdered sugar

2 tablespoons lime juice

2 teaspoons water \

one quarter cup melted butter

Mix all ingredients together
stirring until creamy. Spread
at once. Calamondin® juice may
be slibstituted for ines water if
desired. ;

Deep Dish Apple-

> Guava Pie | \
2 cups peeled, seeded and slic-
ed guavas

2 cups sliced cooking. apples
1 cup sugar

2 tablespoons flour

half teaspoon cinnamon

One eighth teaspoon salt
Juice of 1 lime

3 tablespoons butter

Rich biscuit dough or pastry
' Place layers of sliced guavas
and sliced apples in a baking
dish, about 1 and a half quart

-biscuit dough

a half cup candied orange peel

Beat for 2. minutes: Pour into a]
for about 40° minutes. The cake |

Sylistituee |
for the orange peel or: this. may| @

‘Guava-Pung entAnd Plentiful aaa ari

capacity. Combine flour, sugar,
cinnamon ‘and _ salt. Sprink'e
over the fruit.. Add lime juice} 4
and dot with butter. Cover with
or pastry. Cut
gashes in _pastry for steam to
escape. :

are in a hot oven for 30 to

AQ minutes, or until guavas are|”

tender. Brush crust with butter:
Serve. warm with w hipped

| cream® or vanilla. ice creamy

SUPER-RIB

 

Spécialement congu pour donner une conduite
. pour-une meilleure faculté d’adap-

aisée ...

_ tation, pour moins d’usure... allez voir le
Super-Rib de Goodyear, Et, tous les superbes
pneus tracteurs Goodyear sont construits a
entoilage 3T “Triple Tempered”, une exclu-
sivité de Goodyear!

 

Ik Y A DES ENEYS GOODYEAR POUR CHAQUE ROUE DE

2-59-8F

A teaspoon grated fresh ginger

   

 

er inche we Peobines wa

cup. water,

Add a half cup water. ‘to, Jem ed
on slices. “Allow both mixtures 3
to stand 2 to 3 hours. Cool lem- >
1 | on over low heat until rind is
transparent, -adding” more Wa-
ter if necessary. i
Add lemon to guava mixture
and. boil rapidly in large sauice- :
pan for 20 to 2% minutes until ~
eS from Spoon. Pope fing 4
! into hot sterilized jar iB
halves. Remove soft inner pulp immediately. Or cee ee 2

and seeds with a spoon. Cut|
glasses ‘and cover: ‘with a
guava shells into, strips a quert- - a

Guava Ms armalade |

 

A cups ‘guava tripe
3 cups’ sugar’
2 cups water —
half a lemon, cut. in» Small pa:
per thin slices-

se
ie

, zy .

   
      
        
   
    
   
   
   

root, if desired —
Peel guavas. Cut fruit into

PT ATTAUE

ip as

A

  

Le nouveail Trdction Stire: Gri ip
de Goodyear a été spécialenront A

_ concu pour vous donner une ~~
traction maximum. II est muni
de longues barres. pour vous —

_ procurer la force de traction

~~ requise par les tractours —
-‘modernes. 1 mord en biais et, te
grace a son profil a Ait ae

- C-E-N-T-R-E 0-U-V-E- R-T,

il se nettoie automatiquement.
Ainsi vous obtenez une tr action. ~
i constanté, Il vous cotite
moins de temps, moins de tr avail
apie? et moins decarburant. =
Allez le voir encore aujourd’hui |

chez votre dealer Goodyear,
. \ 3 <3

  

 

 

DFYE

LA FERié

SOCIETE HAITIENNE D’AUTOMOBILES, S. A. ‘ ‘

Rue Pavee
PAGE 12

‘(HAITI SUN’? )

 

  
 

Long ago,

  
    
 

 

    

rious. He threw ‘the one he had
found to the ground and stamp-
ed upon it. ‘“These cursed shoes
are of the devil,” he eried. “‘L
will have nothing more to do
with them.”

So Malice still had his pair

there lived in of ‘‘sabots’’, and the old peas:

   
          
   
      
        
   
         
  

 

     
   

 

 

Haiti two creatures, Mali- ‘| ant went back to his goat. When
Se and Boudui whose ex- Bouqui saw him leading the
ploits “hive Lived ever ‘bete’’ a little later, he said te
since in the foiklore tales himself: ‘‘I must be carefui
recounted around the fire with Malice; his science is
gree FaEDEr: strong, after all.”

7 This -column is devoted

$ to historical research on |_ J Ge

bi the lives of the twe folk- ~P > Pictals mi
lore heroes. | . NEW BUDGET

: PROMULGATED

As Bouqui was hkoeing — the
rows between the lush green
vines of his ‘‘patate’’ field one
day, Malice approached, lean-
e ing on the stone-wall, watching
him work.
P“Bonjour,
Bouqui called.
“Bonjour, compere,
“natates’? you have
liee commented.

ecmpere Malice’,
wonderful
here,’’? Ma-

sal
Bouqui trotted over and look-
ed very!wise as if he~had a
great secret n impart.
‘ Mais aout ’ he agreed: “they
am reAlly are good. You know why,
Hecause I used to spit towards
the sunsct’ three times every
day. before they sprouted, and
at midnight each Thursday L
- nour a little ‘d’leau benit’’ pb
the seventh plant in each row”

Malice laughed.

“You mean to tell me you g9
to all that trouble to have a
healthy crop when tke weather
is so fine and the earth so, fer-
tile you couldn’t have a bad

one if you tried?”’
Bouqui grew angry.
ae “What do you ‘mean, compere

'Malice? Do you know who gave
me the formula? Ti-Militaire —
ee and we all know he is the best
houngan in the business.’
“The second best, oui,
lige contradicted him.

 

 

 

 

 
  

” Ma-

faa. Oh oh!’ What a stupid man
you are! Even the “‘ti-moune”’
- who fetch water at the spring
ean tell you pa is the
-best”’.
“There is ope better,’’ said
Malice, then lowering his voice
and glaring in his most prophe-
_ tie way, “Me!’
_. This time it was Bouqui’s- turn

e

to laugh. ;
~- “You a houngan? Ho, Ho, |
Ho!” He roled on the ground’

in his murth.

So, Malice offered to prove ib.
{o his doubting friend, and that
evening they waited by the
yoad for someone ‘fo pass, on
whom Malice eould cast a spell.
; finally, along came an old
“habitant’ leading a goat.

 

Malice said: ‘You see that
old hkabitant? I am_ going to
fake his goat away, and give

 

it back to him, and he will ne-
ver know a word.” at
Se Malice took a new pair of
“cabots’ and cut across to
come gut on the road ahead of
the man. He threw one boot in

  

Cric Crac! .
HOW MALICE PROVED HIS “SCIENCE”

  
  

The 1962-1963 Budget has been
issued in a special edition o’
the offical paper ‘‘Le Moniteur’
of September 27th. ‘The. docu
ment contains exactly 582 pag
es. Several improvements’ havc
been made in the Budget thi:
year. Thus the provisions fov
expenses are presented wit
more details. In certain chapt-
ers there are ‘some Statistica
calculations concerning the ac
\ tivities of most ministerial de-
partments.

The Department of Finance
and Economic Affairs had the
diligence to immediately send
copies of the Budget to all the
ministerial departments to per-
mit the different accounting
| Services to prepare their books
Anna? ‘arrange their accounts.

the road then ran a kilometre
further on to -place the other
where it would not be missed.

The poor peasant saw the first
“cabot”.» He stopped and_ pick:
ed it up. then, with a sigh, he
threw it away, saying; ‘‘What
2. pity there is only’ one. It’s
lust the right size for my wo-
man.”

When he found the  secord
poot, ha immediately gave a-
cry of joy and, tying his goat
to a tree, ran off to pick up the
first before any other Araveller
could find it.

Malice quiekly untied the ani-
mal and took it to show Bouqui
Ne left a length of rope in its
nlace. Then, he tied the goat |
./to another tree and dashed
back over the short-cut to pick

 

It is known that the Septemb-

eae nagar ~~. {er checks for officials public
ESS aac employees, and pensioners will
reached it before the ‘‘habi- b Dee Pens
tant” appeared around tha e delivered next Monday, Oc:
eae a ; tober 1st. The October discount

will take place on Friday Octo-
ber 5th, at the National» Bank
of the Republic.

He hid in a bush while the
peasant searched for the other
shoe, and finally saw. the man
“oi and th the second ; :
Bee Ue Oana aa (From “LE NOUVELLISTE”
shee away,

“What a malediction’ cried Spetember 27th, 1962.
the peasant. ‘‘someone got here POGDOD GSS PRY op op
ahead of me!”

Malice hurried back to the ©
place where he had left the §
second shoe and placed the first @

one about a hundred metres @
further along the road.

The peasant returned and

found the rape without any
goat,

“Ah! quelle malediction,”’ md
cried again “they have stolen ©
my ‘“cabrit’”. And he walked &
sadly along the yoad dragging @
the length of xope behind him,”

Malice called Beuqui and
said: “Come and see, comgere 2
Bouqui, he is dvagging the
empty rope. He thinks he still
has the goat!” When the, “ha- &
bitant’” suddenly saw the other S
“sahot’, he jumped with joy
and siezing the shoe he ran back
as fast as he could to the place ¢
where he had thrown the other.

    
  
  

Malice quickly ran down with Y
the goat and tied if in its origi-
nal place. Then he raced back
to the place where the ‘“‘paysan’’
had thrown the “‘sabot’’. — Ife
quickly picked-it up and once
again hid in the undergrowth
beside the road.

When the habitant saw he had Y

eS

$
s
$
s
S

&

lost the shoe again, he was fu- POA ACME LALLA ASA: S 66 OL OL OOO ite

y will be

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
   

(Continued from page 1)

to assure the repair of roads
and bridges according to its at-
tributions, as established by
Art. 2nd of the Decree of Jan-
uary 8th, 1962 creating the Per-
manent Committee of Economic
Liberation of the Republic of
Haiti.

Article 3rd.—Article 4 of the
Law of September 15th, 1953
reads as follows:

“The owner of the vehicle to
be inspected will present him-
self or his* revresentant at the
service of Inspection with the

dmmatriculation Card of the
yehiele.
The vehicles which are ins-

pected every month will-pay an
idditional tax of Gdes 2.50, and
vhose
nonths an additional tax of
xdes, 10,00. Besides, a deduc-
ion of 25 percent will be made
‘rom the initial tax of Gdes.
3.00.. 3

~The additional taxes paid
monthly or quarterly by the ve-
hicles — Gdes. 2.50 and Gdes
10.00 as well as the 25 percen?
of the initial tax of Gdes. 5.00
poured into the specia’
Fund .called “FONDS ROUTIER
DE LA REPUBLIQUE
TL’.

Article “4th.—A epeorl tax of
ONE GOURDE (G. 1.00) will be
collected from any vehicle én-
tering the cities and villages of
the Republic.” fi

Article 5th— Atoll -duty is
established as~ follows for any
vehicle crossing a bridge locat-
ed on the highways of the Re-
public.

This duty will be coledied as
follows:

A)—Bridge of Croix des Mis-
ssons:

1) Trucks» and Autobus: G.
2.00 per 24 hour day;

'2) Public ‘‘camionettes’’ and

, taxis: Gde. 1.00 per 24
hour day;

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

inspected every three’

D’HAI- |
the payment of the duties esta-

New Highway Fund

3) Private Cars and otheis:
Gde. 0,50 at each crossing
Motorcycles: Gde. 0,25 at
each crossing;
Tractors: Gdes.
24 hour day;
Mule or horse carriages,
oxen-charts: Gde. 0,25. by
24 hours day; ;
All other non _— specified
vehicles: Gde. 0.50 a day.

B)—Font Sonde = (Dessalines
Bridge):

Per vehicle: and 24 hour day:
Gde. 1.00.

C)—Other Bridges to pe de~
termined:

Per vehicle per 24 hour day:
Gdes. 1.00. ©

Article «6.—This duty will be
paid by any person driving one
of the vehicles mentioned above.

Article 7.—Any public driver
is entitled; to increase the cur-
rent rate of the transportation of
passengers or cargo according
to the following table:

a) Truck, Autobus, per pas-
enger: 0.20 cts over the
regular rate; and 0,05 cts .
over the cargo rate.
Camionett@s and taxis,
per passenger 0,05. cits
over the regular rate.
Article 8.—Are, exempted of

4)

2.00 per

0)

b)

blished by this. present Law:
the vehicles. immatriculated

“Service de |’Etat’’, “Armed
Forces of Haiti’, “Diplomats”
and ‘‘Consuls’’.

Article 9.—The President. of
the Republic is. authorized. to
modify the way of application |
of the present Law, by Decree
and according to the circum-
stances. |

Article 10.—The present Law
modifies all the Laws or. dispo-
sition of Laws, all Decres or -
|| dispositions of Decree; all De-
crees-Laws or dispositions of
Decree-Laws which are contra-
ry and will be published and
applied... etc.

DPOX°LADSPLLO””LL2PSCPSADO®D

USE NEW AMAZNIG
Festival

Flour

FOR

BETTER CAKES WITH

BETTER TASTE
BETTER TEXTURE

  

Soholote o
SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

Visitors

i

X

—Engineer Jacques McGuffie of
the Shell and wife Solange and
his mother-in-law Mrs. Marie
Combres went to New — York
Tuesday to catch the Air Fran-
ce Boeing to go to Paris. Jac-
ques will attend a conference
of the Shell Company in Lon-
don and will make a four month
tour through Europe.

—Mr. George Patrick Rutland,
Jr. a banker from New York
celebrated his birthday Monday
September 24th. He is guest at
the E] Rancho.

—Robert Pessak, a merchant
from Miami and wife Carol an

 

B.F. Gecdric

LONGLIFE
FAN BELTS

  
 

are made of
HIGH
QUALITY

SEE YOUR DISTRIBUTOR:
‘COMMERCIAL
WILLIAM NARR, 8.A.
JUST RECEIVED -

BF GOODRICH: -—

Tires and Tube—Batteries
PORT AU PRINCE
PIERRE SANSARICQ — Jeremie
GERARD DELAQUIS —Jeremie
NABIB S. HAGE — Saint Marc
BOUCARD & COo. — Jacmel

 

M ATERI ALS" the Castelhaiti.

¢ . Aotomotive Accessories, $46 Noss executive from New York

pe ae
Caribbean Construction Co. 5 A.
Builders Of The Military City
Gen. Manager: Gerard THEARD
Phone: 3955. P.

 

(‘HAITI SUN

 

 

  

a) < PAGE 13 _

 

is current guest at the I] Ran-
cho.

—‘‘Ravissante’’ Claudette  Le-
blane, daughter of Mr and Mrs
Elie Leblane sailed home Tues-
day after four years and half
in New York. She just graduat-
ed as a lab Technician from
Mendull Institutte.
—Youthful . and
Barry Farrell is experiencing
the Haitian traffic behind the
wheel of a black MG. Barry
works as an art writer for many
New York Magazines such as
Art News, Life, Holiday, etc..
for like all poets as he said, he
has to do something else. He
has recommended to Gerty Ga-
rib of the Grand Hotel Oloffson
by Al Seitz currently in New
York.

artist are guests at the Hotel
Salvador.

   
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
  

—Jacob Pesaric, Vice-President
of a Company in Puerto Rico
and wife Elizabeth arrived last
wek for an 8 day visit.

—Ambassador of Panama Alre-
lio Guardia greeted last week]
her daughter Marie Sol, a beau-
tiful brunette. Marie Sol will
spend a few weeks here.

talented poet

—Francois Damonde, a lawyer
and ethnologist just completed a
twelve month studies at Fordh-
am University, Fordhar New
York. He studied sociology with
a scholarship given by the Ame-
rican States Organization. |

—Mrs. Yvette ‘Sokol wife of Mr.

Edmund Sokol, controller for}]—Four lovely nurses arrived
SEDREN arrived last week} last week from New York to

from Paris with her four child-
ren Elizabeth, Evelyn, Vincent
and Jean Pierre.

work at the Schweitzer Hospital]
in Deschapelles. The party
—Joseph Cheries, an estimator T

from Dania, Fla and wife Ca- he

rolyn are guests at the Caribe-
Haiti.

—Vincent Patsy Dagostino, a
real estate broker from Stan-
ford, Connecticut and wife Glo-
ria are ajso guests at the Caribe
Haiti.

—George Shou Hoon Luke, an
‘official -of the U.S. Government
in Honolulu, Hawaii and wife
Elaine are staying a few days

 

—Charles C. Valentine a_busi-

 

SEEKING EMPLOYMENT

Young man 26-year-old, active
and well prepared intellectually,
speaking English and fluent
French, having 5 year experien-
ce in business is seeking em-
ployment as salesman, hotel-
clerk, teacher or else.

SS NT

aes x 4 Loe 3s

A family car which combines
new standards of comfort with
advanced © technical  specifica-
tions and an elegant body’ de-
sign is the new Morris 1100, in-
troduced recently by the British
Motor Corporation, ’

The 1100 is powered by a 1098
cubic centimetre capacity over-
head valve engine mounted
transversely and driving the
front wheels. Indepdent suspen-
sion is provided on all four
wheels, in conjunction with 2
patent Hydrolastic unit which
. eliminates the use of conven-
~ tional dampers—and is a deve-
lopment of the rubber cone sus-
pension which has been used to
@ great effect on the B.M.C. Mini
= Minor. It is designed to reduce

O. BO . 284.

we i; pitch and bounce without im-
Peek) pairing the road hoiding and
oye one e. CO. Weld and M@ cornering qualities for which

rece s Reka pita os

Mithe ‘Mini’ is well known.
The new Morris has a maxi-

In Town

‘year.

GUAVA-PUNGENT

(Continued from page 11)

Guava Juice

_ Select guavas which are firm
but ripe. Wash, remove blem-
ishes, Slice guavas and put in
large saucepan. And enough
water to just cover. Cook until
fruit is tender. Do not over
cook. Allow to cool. Strain
throughh a flannel jelly bag.

which includes Terri Calouro,
from. Bristol, Rhode Island, Pat
Hathaway, trom Somerset,
Mass., Edith Mazur from Rho-
de Island and Janice Carol Pike,
from Abington, Mass was met
at the airport by creole speak-
ing Marianne Czernin, a nurse
at the Schweitzer Hospital for

a

can for future use.

Quick Guava Jelly

3 and a half cups guava juice
half cup strained lime juice
7 and a half cups sugar
half cup liquid pectin
few drops of red coloring
Mix guava juice, lime juice

—Mr. David. Christian, an Ac-
countant from Wilmette, Illinois
and his young and pretty blon-
de wife Karin, married on Sa-
turday September 22 arrived
here Sunday for their .honey-
moon: They were warmly met
at the airport by beautiful Gina
Moore, Haitian wife of a retir-
ed businesman from __ Illinois,
Jerry Moore.

boil 3 minutes. Add pectin.
Bring to a boil end boil 2 mi-

—Hary Wishnow, a prominent
Travel Agent from Massachus-
etts is visiting: and staying at
the Villa Creole.

into sterilized glasses. Skim top
of jelly. Pour melted paraffin

is best when it is fresh,

 

New Family Car

 

mum speed of the order of 77, by having only four greasing
miles per hour, with accelera-| poins, and the cooling system
tion and fuel consumption which| and suspension are “sealed for
compare favourably with other | life”.

ears of its size. Disc brakes are
provided on the front wheels,
avd the 1100 follows the trend
towards simplified maintenace

COURTESY OF AUTO S.A.
360 Ave J.J. -Dessalines
Vel. 3134-2772

Cp
[ani PUPULAR ROND POINT RESTAURANET
Under the personable management of MAX and
MARYSE BUTEAU, the airconditioned restaurant
with its soothing atmosphere —quite stero, music—
is an oasis of sorts, especially for businessmen and
their wives who wish to lunch in the City.
The businessman’s full course lunch with day to
fay variety at $1.50 is now an established favorite.
Some of specialities of the “maison”, Haitian in
particular, have been handed down for generations
and have no competitors. They are “Lambi 5 gratine,
ecrevisse: homard flambe, poulet a la Russe, tassot
de dinde, tassot de filet, griot, escalope au gruyere,
steak au poivre etc.
ee

-

 

mop alae Nae asin

and sugar in a large saucepan, 5
Bring to a full\rolling boil and —

nutes. Add red coloring accord- —
y ing to the color, desired. Pour —

over the hot jelly. Guava jelly —

pe Na eae ess bk

 

Use in making jelly, punch or

 

 

Ne hb - Ne cae aN aE
PAGE 14

eA DiS UN!

 

a é Joseph pet

   
 

student

‘Dp, his dauzhter BRIGITTE
of the Faculty of {Medicine of Mompellier Tniversity and son SER:

ROGER BCUCAtT srd_ year
studying at Montreal, flew by PAA to U.S. and Canada on
September 25th... Dr. ROGER VALM#, alter a few weeks sojourn
in Port au Prince on the occasion of his father’s death, left for
$f Louis (Missouri) where he is a specialist in surgery and Uro
logy in a great hospital center.... Mr. MAURICE MAXIMILIEN
and his three talented musician daughters GLADYS, WANDA and
CAROLE flew to New York last weekend... On the ‘same date,
Mme. LECESTRIs PROSPER and Mme ANTOINID COICOU, ac-
companied by their respective daughters MARYSE: and MIREILLE
- flew to Kingston.:. Dr. CARLOS) BOULOS, former Secreiary of
: State of Health Department flew also to New York on a spec al
ot Colonel and Mrs. RICHARD CURTIS, chief of the U.S.
_ Air Force Mission and Dr. SIBERT of OMS, back home from U.S...
; Mr. EDRISS VINCENT, Haitian economist in charge of the’ Sta-
 tistic Department of BNRH returned from Washington last Satur-
day... LUCUENNE TIPPENHAUER and HANIX VAN KESTEREN
were married at New York’ on September 22nd... Mr. CARL ROU-
CHON of Agence Citadelle, guest of the Commissariat of Tourism
of france, flew to Paris: Saturday... ADELINE SMITH, daughter
‘ of the well-known linotypist DORTICHON S. SMITH, collaborator
of the daily paper “‘Le Nouvelliste’’, flew to New York to study at
iigh school of Nyac... The Charge d’Affaires of Nationalist Chi-
na will reeeive at the Legation at Musseau on October 10th from
12:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on the occasion of the National Feast of
the Nationalist China... MARGUERITE-MARIE’ MATHON and AL-
BERT LOUIS exchanged vows in a nuptial ceremony held at Sa-
~ ered Heart Church Wednesday at 10:00 a.m... The solemn reopen-

GE

 

 

    

  
 
  

e ing of the different Justice’s Courts of the Republic will take :

: place on October 8th, announces a notice of the Department of
- Justice... The director of the.Bureau of Ethnology, Mr. EMMA-
| -NUEL C. PAUL, received,an important lot of books to the ‘‘Ins-
{itut Francais d’Haiti’’,. for the Museum of this institution... ‘Mr.
| JEAN CHAUVEL, distinguished French diplomat, on mission for
ci the Government of the French Republic in Latin America, will
i visit Haiti on October 28th. Ambassador CHAUVEL will visit Bra-
wil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Venezuela, Haiti, Pana-
mia, Nicaragua, Mexico, Jamaica and Dominican Republic... \An
OPEL CAR immatriculated 5482 ran afoul of a FORD Station Wag-
on Camionette Wednesday morning at Place Toussaint Louverture.
The passengers of this Car, seriously injured, were urgently trans:
ported to the General Hospital... Mr. JEAN ROC is the new No:
_ tary appointed in place of GEORGES VILMENAY recently de-
Ke ceased...
CaeVIC LAMPSON, Creole-Speaking FIRESTONE Manager in URU-
' GUAY spent a brief visit in his old stamping grounds this week...
_ Most unusual tourist in town this week was undoubtedly a kilted
‘scot whovis a surgeon-dentist in his old highland groft. Haiti was
the Scot’s 63rd country visited and he shunned a taxi for shank’s
_ pony and lodged at the Florville in town. A gay sight was the
_ kilted scotman minus shirt taking movies of Port au Prinee mo-
~numents... Judge ULRICK NOEL left for Rome to attend a con-
ference last week... A new pasttime at CROTX DES MiSStON> is
watehing vehicles paying tolls and crossing the new bridge... The
lying Policemen before the ne weoncrete toll both in Petionville
and Martissant are taking motorist.some time getling used to
them... Mrs. JULES TOMAR of Gros Morne and the children have
returned from summering in the home State—New Jersey... Spear-
fishing guns no wrequire Police okay prior :to purchase... The Am-
‘bassador of DAHOMEY in Haiti, Dr. NICOLAS EQUAGNIGNON
left for New York this week where he will meet his wife and fa-
~ mily. The date of Ambassador EOUAGNIGNON’s return is un-
_ known... GEORGE P. BINDER of the Electric Dept of Stone and
_ Webster Service Corp in New York was on a visit to Port this week.

Caribbean Construction Co. SA.
Builders Of The Military Citv
Gen. Manager: Gerard THEARD
_ Phone: 3955. P. O. _— ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
  

 

By

 

  

“PAN AMS Gourmets-On-The-Go”

Vote For Rare Beef And Chicken

 

“ In a holiday mood and speed-
ing though the air at vacation
it’s rare beef we want on
the plate when meal time rolls
chicken is the
meals in

time,

around. And,
next best choice for
the ‘clouds.

That’s the word from the top

chefs of Pan American Air-
ways who plan and prepare
menus for 575-mile an hour jet
flights that connect the Carib-
bean, Middle America and
South America with the rest of

  

the World. It is a conclusion
based on hundreds of- thousands
of meals served and scores of
different menus.

There is a daily “‘poll’’ in the
first class jet Clipper sections
on the longer flights. The purs-
er comes around during cock-
tail time with the menu, which
usually has three choices of en-
trees, beef, chicken and_ fish.
And what do they select?

Close to 70 percent ask for
beef —roast or steak— and half
of them want it rare. Of the
balance, 20 percent will take
chicken and 10 percent fish.

Friday changes things a bit
and 40 percent prefer fish, but
beef still runs strong at 50 per-
cent and poultry is down to 10
percent. Pork, say the major-

\domos of the airline’s kitchens,
is a lost cause. Dress it up in

CU ae

 

“ny of a dozen different appetiz-
ing ways and it will still be the
choice of only a few of the 121
passengers who occupy the jet
Clipper seats.
When luncheon
around, give the ‘gourmets-oi-
the-go” a choice of hot or cold
lunch and the choice is about
even. So these menus are chan-
ged frequently. Always a favor-
ite is chicken served in aspic
and in one favorite Pan Am

time rolls

recipe it is stuffed with pate de
fois gras.

Coffee remains the universal
drink, with only an occasional
call for tea and, of course, milk
or a coke for children, Pan Am
has experimented and finally
has a coffee that seems to sa-
tisfy almost everyone. It is a
special blend, made up of some
of the products of each of the
coffee-growing countries through
which the airline flies.

In general, there’s as much
difference of opinion on coffee
as on the proper recipe for a
martini, but travelers like the
compromise formula now serv-
ed. In its favor, of course, is
the fact that it is freshly brew-
ed in the four coffee makers on
each jet.

Chefs in the airline’s two doz-

 

-serving a

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
  

ned to avoid repetition. ae
with 136 different menus, pla}
you get the same meal twig
during an extensive flying
cation it is the utmost in: coi
cidence.

 Gustatory logistics for an all

line are a bit more involva
than the housewives’ corn.
store-to-kitchen-to-table routing

Visit one of the flight kitchen}
and you might find —all at ‘th
same time— preparations
breakfast, snacks and lunch f%
two or three flights; snackg:
lunch and cocktail tidbits fg
another few, and for a lol:
nonstop hop from one continel
to another special food for’ th:
day’s regular three meals, pli.
a few snack periods and_ tit’
cocktail hour. es

Special attention is given {-
meals for the passengers in® “tit:
economy section, for the maf’
datory regulations — stipula
that it must be a tray mea
with a single meal selection. I
must, therefore, be planned
make everyone happy.
there’s the major problem { (
large number ¢
meals in a very short time. 4.
times the stewardesses wis’
that the jet would slow dow’
for a while! i;

ays ne
food specialties. Travelers ik
to sample the Mexican specia,

‘ty, tamales, as well as “e
panada”’, a tasty meat-stuff@

pastry native to Panama. The}

and other specialties are offd

ed with another choice. A
(Continued on page

 

ENGLISH PRINCESS ROYAL OPENS NEIGHBOR

ISLANDS ©

NIDA AND TOBAGO es

  

taal

aR Ste

a Bae

The Princess Royal who is preci ing ihe Guten of England at the Trinidad.
reads the Speech from the Throne during

and Tobago independence celebrations,
the State Opening of the Parliament of Trinidad and Tobago in the tesa 4 ;

th moses ae

 

Council Chamber at the Red House.

Seated on either side of The Princess Royal are the Governor, Sir Solomon |

; Hochoy, and Lady Hochoy.

 

RN os. ca :

 

 

  
- SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 30th, 1962

 

 

eeH

Off the Telediol

i _—The Women’s League ball at Cabane Choucoune last week turned
out some 450 people. —I just noticed the Casino sign on the P-V
| Road, reading Casino International... Enjoy His Show... Who he?—
The driver of that white Anglia, license 1727, doesn’t care how
- pearly he runs other people into the ditch when he passes on
_ curves. Even the camionette driver yelled ‘enragee” at him. —One
of the air conditioning units in a window of the Rendez-Vous give:
off strange bumping noises. It has been dubbed the ‘Yarborough
Symphony’. Wish I'd said that! —Speaking of dubbing, Ray L. P
' Garrison got stuck with the L. P. for long-playing because he gets
_ on! talking jags. —Bill Serman and family are off on a month's
Vacation, with handsome Bud Sprague holding the airport in po
- sition. —Dan Savoy’s farewell party on the Lykes Line freighter
: Was @ lo-9-ong one. It started Monday morning and the ship didn’t
- gail until Tuesday aight. If Dan wasn’t poured ON, he surely. Tus!
have beet poured OFF. —Newest victim of Hepatitis is Jim Reese
“who is in Gitmon for treatment, —Gae Debrosse and her mother
- didn’ t get away on Tuesday... they left Wednesday. Gae has about
“99 days of special meals mapped out for herself — from Chinese
_ to Lebanese, in the city of delicatessens and restaurants — goo.
old New York.—The new man about the house at the Ayots arri-
xed September 12th, weighing in at 5 pounds... named Clifford
--Mrs. and Sgt. Nichols gave a farewell party fcr the
Andy Zihars Saturday night. That buffet was an Arabian N:ght’s
Dream! The Zihars are headed beck for the States shortly (leav-
, me me with a lovely ironing board to replace my “‘planchette’
_ Which slips, slides, bobbles and wobbles. Merci! —Well, tregedy
: at the menagerie. took Ti Noir, my old black. cat, right out of
> this world: To dream ‘of pounds of hamburger, » Tsuppose. What
: modern cat dreams of juicy mice anymore? —Arthur O'Neil is
a helpless state at present, and Sister Joan is the ministering
i _ ungel, in need of some assistance. —Vic Lamson dropped back
_ into the fold last Wednesday from Montevideo (where they like
it mucho). He dropped into Rendez-Vous, looking for Don Lung-
| Witz (Plantation Dauphin) who was lunching next door (traitor).
~ Scuttlebut says Bill Vrooman is selling encyclopedias in the Sta-
- tes, and Bobbie is working as hostess in a resort. Nick McNeil is
_ in the Pacific and Buffy McNeil is in Germany. How do you
like that for a separated family? Barbara is now librarian at
Union School, and thriving on it. Mac is still Nabaco, as everyone
knows. —Speaking of Union School, the reports on Dr. Glines the
new prexy, are all to the good. —Chuck Wiggins, whose belt is
out another notch, hasn’t lost any of his. verve; is seating out his
wife’s return. She is trying to sell their-car back home. —Mrs.
Cooper of Cooper Travel Service of Cleveland, who was here last
_ week with a group of 15 travel agents, was the guest of honor at
a cocktail party at Hotel Choucoune Wédnesday evening. —I guess
_ (ll have to get up a half hour earlier from now on to avoid the
; traffic tie-up caused by the new gourde house at Martissant. It
- ppened on Friday morning and the line backed up all the way
to the Caribe Haiti Hotel..I had to wait 30 minutes to get out
pe my gate. Can you imagine what that’s going to be like in the
afternoon heat and dust, when the world is a big pie, baking
/gently in the sun? —That Morris 1100’s new suspension is describ-
ed by the builders as a “cocktail” of water and anti-freeze... but
you ride on it — not drink it. Smoo-o-th! Even over those humps
in the road at the toll houses! That’s the proof. —THE END: A
- camionette called ‘‘TWIST’’ — ‘‘PAP”’ is the driver. He’s a twist-
“ er, all right! —Note to the Pierre Phipps: the parrot is still imi-
tating Mogli’s bark, and driving me crazy. —I know — that’s a
putt, not a drive)

   

© George.

 

 

sR eS a ee ee ee

KAY MAYOR

 

 

NEWS IN BRIEF

 

nace the life of the nearby
dwellers of these huts and
houses, the bed will become

Yestergiay morning, a friend
‘interested in the progress of

   

 

|Contributions and poured to the

  

urbanization in the capital and

the protection of the humble
people, pointed out that in the

- elosé vicinity of ‘“‘Marche Salo-
‘mon’ some compatriots decid-

ed to build some huts in the
bed of the Bois de Chene’s tor-
rent.

‘The peril is double: in the

rainy season the flood will me-

J

narrow and the flood will run
over destroying the houses, life
and properties of the peorls of
these localities.

We call the attention of the
interested administrations parti-
cularly the ~ Municipality, Dep-
artments of Interior and Popu-

ATT SUN?”

TAXES ON RHUM
AND PROPANE GAS

The edition of September 20th
of the official paper ‘‘Le Moni-’
teur’’ published important De-
crees on the desaffectation of
some budget allocations and the
modifications of certain fiscal
aws concerning the taxes on
Rhum, the alcoholic beverages
ind Propane Gas.

1—Decree transferring Gdes:
71,500.00 from the Articles 1303
and 1308 of the Budget to. the
Vepartment of Interior for ‘‘spe-
cial cE XDENR ES: of the ree Po-
iice”’

pe Heres transferring Gdes.
243,000.00 from the Article 0101-
¥ of the Budget to the Depart-
ment of Finances and opening a
special credit at the benefit of
the same PRepartment for:

Art. 0101-C: — Miscellaneous:
Gdes.: 225,000.00

Art. 0301-7: Scholarships:
18,000.00.

3—Decree imposing an addi-
tional -tax of 0,53 cts on each
bottle of one litre or fraction of
litre, of the 4 types of rhums
determined in ‘the paragraphs a,
b, c, d of the Art. 1 of the Law
of December 18th, 1959. f

The Article 5 of this Law is
modified as follows:

“Any alcohol above 25 deg-
rees-Castier, distilled in Haiti
for local consumption will pay
a tax of 0,25 cts by litre or
fraction of litre to be collected
at the source by the means of
stamps put on the container.”
The article 3 reads:

G.:

“For the alcoholic beverages
and imported beer, it is under-
stand that the fractions of litre
cannot be accumulated. Each
bottle of Jess than a litre will
be considered as a full bottle
of one litre and taxed indivi-
dually.”’ :

In case of contravention, a
fine from 500 to 1000 Gdes will
be applied.

4—Decree imposing a tax of
2% cts of gourde on each pound
of propane gas sold for the lo-
cal! consumption; the collection
will be made at the source by
the General Administration of

Public Treasury.
In the same edition of ‘Le
Moniteur’’ an important Decree
on the issuance of 3,300,000
Bonds by the Government is
also published. This Decree is
in connection with ‘the liquida-
tion of _the Government Debts
for which a previous Decree of
October 30th 1958 had created
a special tax of $4.00 on the Cof-
fee export to be deposited at
the BNRH.

lation and Public Werks on this
danger.
(Translated from ‘Le Matin’’)
bb cio.

“Tt is said in competent cir-
cles that the works of the Jet
Airport of ‘Mais Gate’, will
begin in October. Last week, in
transit at Miami, the Chance-
lier Chalmers confirmed that
the U.S. Congress gave the
green-light for a $3,000,000 loan
for the construction of the air-
port, The sooner the better.”

1

c 5
$$$ nn

 

 

ae ny

PAGE 15

A AT OC LCCC EN tet

Mr. EDWARD GLION CURTIS Jr.

¢ on

Born in St. Louis, Missouri, in September, 1909, Mr. Edward

- Glion Curtis Jr., 1st Secretary and Counselor-Minister of the U.S.
. Embassy in Haiti, is a career officer in the Unted States Diplo-

matic Service. After. receiving his B.A., he graduated from the
Cesare Alferi Institute in Florence, Italy, and in 1935 he entered
the Diplomatic Service. ©

  

His first post was that of Vice- Consul at Budapest, Hungary,
from 1935 to 1936, before going to Wellington, in New Zealand.
Named 3rd Secretary of Legation in Port au Prince, Haiti in April, i
1940, Mr. Curtis stayed at this post till 1943. After leaving Haiti
in 1944, Mr. Curtis’went to Madrid, Spain as and Secretary on
the Embassy and Vice-Consul from 1944 to 1947. ©

Aiter this he was named Consul and 2nd Secretary at the Hague.
We was then Consul at Zurich, Switzerland from 1950 to 1954.
Named ist Secretary and Consul at Panama, Mr. Curtis 1 ‘moved
later to Managua as Counselor (1956-1957) before being appointed
cfficer in charge of Inter-American Security and Assistant to the
State Bb iss in Washington, on July 28, 1957.
. Edward Glion Curtis dm is married and has four children.

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

BLACK MARKET OF FOOD”

 

“PANORAMA” Sept. 24, 1962.

Our colleague “PANORAMA”
revealed this week that some
basic products of the Haitian
food staples are very expensive
on the local market. The family
budgets are disturbed, it added,
by the persisting of the fact.

At the end of the week, the

Inspectors of Commerce Depart-
ment were seen around the dif
ferent market-places of the Ca-
pital, investigating the current
prices. Maybe their action will
bring the food prices back to a
reasonable level, stated the
j daily.

 

lles Des Fleurs A.S.

SCORES ANOTHER FIRST
SALTER TOASTED CASHEW NUTS
EXPORTED IN 4-OUNCE CONTAINERS
AVAILABLE IN HAITI EXCLUSIVELY AT

EPICERIE HENRI RIGAUD
PRODUCTS OF UNSURPASSED STANDARDS
OF £OOD PURITY

wae dst we Lae
 

  
 
  
  
     
  
   
  
    
   
       
 
 
   
   
 

Consul Limberg, economist Albert Boyer and columnist Aubelin
_ dolicoeur seen at the Dinner party given at the. HMamburg’s, Cham-
her of Commerce on the celebrated Ubersce, Tag (Overseas Day):

May 7.
i eaealdaoccnsstpmastecen esscoenssne seis ei eae tas ES x

a
WATER SUPPLY PROBLEM

 

monthly bills of the Hydraulic
Service is required. We must
ask a question. Why. cannot the
water be supplied regularly? It
is out the .question to let the
watergates opened ij] the re-
servoirs are empty, but it is
possible to fix the hours of dis-
tribution, according to the needs
of the area.’ The
should be) satisfied,

(Continued from page 1)

It is a question of organiza-
4 fon, of fair distribution which
can't be Jett to the fantasy of
he man in charge of the water
ntrol.

»ubiic service is only effi-
cient’ whon strict) control ” and’
the exceulion of orders, is. esta- consumers
blished. ak ah
_ Apparently, if is 'so far from |,
being so. in the distribution. of
the, drinking water, ed, would be better than the ac-
Mowever, the payment ot the tual “technic.”

Pa eer eeseeus Op o>oxopeyé,

It is clear that such a 'pro-
ceeding, if, it»could) be establish-

a
oo

oo

 

SP

Port au Prince Haiti—W.l.
peonts: USINE A GLACE NATIONALE, S. A.

POC COCO OECOCE OO COCOSK

ee "5

 
 

BOEING ET CARAVELLE. .

 

 

Ja ‘swing around Central

       
 

eR

920 7G Le AOR OCLC

       

Ae V2 ADAP

 

aie. Les 3 tink

Wide a

NATIT SU Nes

mith

 

 

; am yaaa WD in

ets.” SUR LE ‘PLUS GRAND RESEAU 1 fy MONDE

ames ea An aera ELE EES Oe: a 0 ie

GERMAN | COFFEE. A Lottery’s Delegation:

TYCOON DUE

(Continued from page 1)
coula very well be

worker, a weaihy man

“LIVE TO
PHELP OTHERS LIVE” is a hard:
and a)

philanthropist wha is now devot:

ing himself to develop
standing among people. all ove

the world. He invites to Ger
many and sponsors. the studie
of students from all the Coun:

tries he buys coffee from. (I

under-

is his way to work toward th:

: betterment
his way to work
and peace.

Mr. < Limberg |'s -supporting
many. social works in. differen?

4! Countries in the world. Amongs'
Lim-
ly

the social works that Mr.
berg is interested in Haiti

of the world, It. ir
toward love

the Cancer League which in the
past he assisted with a contri-
bution of radium, for the Haiti’s

cancer machine.

 

Beauty Contest...
(Continued from page 1)

ond Pan-American . Festival to

be organized here

yers Constant.

Tourism Director Jacques Ho-
norat, Miss Haiti organizer
“Ernst Casseus accompanied by
Pan American World Airways
Public Relations official Jean
Saurel | returned last week from
and
South America extending per:
sonal. invitations to the Sister
Republics to attend the Second
Pan-American Festival in. Port

au Prince.
Work on ‘‘Pare de la Paix
Francois Duvalier’’ in the Pal-

miste section of the 1949-50 Bi-
centennial Exposition area, is
in the mural stage this week.
This park.is to be the focal
point of the Pan-American Fes-
tival according to Tourism Mi-
nistry.

 

Sports To Be -Enforced

' (Continued from page 1)

law of’ January 13, 1938 that
makes sports in elementary and
secondary schools compulso-
ry from now on will be enforc-
ed: Beginning in October, allt
schools will provide two hours
of physical education weekly in
their curriculum.

Rectors of Private ‘schools are |.
| instructed

to. contact ~ the Na-
tional Commission’ for’ Youth
and Sperts in order to imple-
ment their training schedule.

 

French Hotelier...

(Continued from page 1)
the, Hotel Tho-Lele. Mr. Mege-
vand who got his experience in
hotel business from three Con-
tinents, Nigeria. in Africa, Por-

nic, France in Europe -and Ja-|

maica in the Caribbean. He

made his. first visit more than
a. year ago while he. was Mana-
ger of the Silver Sand Beach,
near Montego Bay,
a week. at the Ibo-Lele.

later this!
year by the Tourism Ministry
headed by dynamic Victor Ne-

| very

and spent

&

 

      
  
   

To Madrid

 

A delegation composed of Mr,
Breton Nazaire,
nistrator; Mr. Fernand. Denne-
ry, member ,of the Technical
Counsel; Mr. Romual Achille,
director of the Social Division
of the Lottery, will represent
the “Loterie de l’Etat Haitien’’
at the International Congress
concerning the different  syst-
ems of drawing used in the
countries where a State Lottery
exists. The Convention will take
place at Madrid, Spain from
October 9th to 14th,’ 1962. This
Delegation flew today by Pan-
eae to Europe.

 

To The Propncties
Of Morris & M.G.

 

The AUTO S.A. wishes to an-
nounce that.a mechanic Engin-
‘eer coming directly from En-
gland will be at your disposal

jfvom October. 4th for an eight

day stay.)

All those wishing a special
rendez-vous are invited to reg-
ister their‘name as soon as pos-
sible with AUTO S.A:, Ave J.
J. Dessalines.

 

PanAm’s Gourmets...
(Continued from page 14)

Uniformity is. the key to
meal serving success, particu-
larly in as far-flung an opera-
tion as Pan Am’s. Haute cuisi-
ne is haute cuisine only when
all kitchens use the same care-
ful preparation methods, which
is why supervisors ride the
planes regularly and visit all
the kitchens, Some dishes are |
dispatched: to the control ' lab-
oratories in. Miami jor tasting
and testing. ’

The } only limit. on variety of
menus is the appetites of, the
passengers. Carrots, for instan-
ee, are left on the plates. Spa-
chetti cannot be reheated with-
out losing flavor, oysters are
too fragile for travel and some
vegetables spread their odor
through the cabin. ‘

And who, the chefs ask, wants

to go rolling down to romantic

Rio with the perfume of cab-
bage invading his: thoughts?

 

 

 

Inefficient Public...
(Continued from page 12)

al 9 p.m. Note that it also stops
often between 1:00 and,
3:00 p.m., because | the ‘drivers
are at lunch. When we add that
on Sundays and holidays there
is no service at all, we can un-
derstand the inefficiency of our

only public, transportation — ‘syst- |

em in Port au Prince.

‘For the common good and the
aid of low-income people, some-
thing should be done for the
modernization of our autobus
system. fe

  

Director-Admi-

Saige: SE hin Bes

   
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  

CONSULTEZ”
_ VOTRE AGENT
DE VOYAGE

 

he

N EWS IN BRIEF

Pan American | Airways, start-
ing October 1st will have: threc
flights per week exclusively for =~
cargo, from Miami to Port aus i
Prince, according to Numa Cor- #
vington in charge of Pan-Air | Be)
cargo operations at the airport. ;

These will arrive here via ~
Kingston — on Wednesdays ‘and |
Saturdays at 5:50 p,m. and. “yi i
proceed at 6:10 to Maiqueti Vek ‘
(Caracas). On. Fridays ther:
will also be a flight direct froin
ee artiving at Bowen Field

2; 00 "psm: z : a

ee will be ona carzo sient z
per week noyihbound on Satu |
days ieaving at/5:00 p.m. dire ~
to Miarni, arriving at 8:00 p.tiv. 4

These will alj be DC6-A plan-
es, each with cargo-capacity or
29,000 pounds. i

xX XX
if we get. in a jam we car jaf
get in one of the big flower
cartons of. Chatelet des Fleurs |:
and make it to Miami as cargo, hae
fast and cheap, 12 cents per +
pound. ; a

    

x KX oa
Morrill Sprague is the spruce- —
looking replacement in: charge —
of mechanical operations for
Pan-Air at Bowen Vield, tem-
porarily replacing Bill Sirman
Bill is enjoying the flesh-pots
well anyway he went to Miami
on his annual furlough. | Morrill
Sprague is usually stationed at
Pan-Air maintenance-hase sine
Miami. 3

mx ae

Don’t look now but the
cannery at Pont Sonde is idle

again: a new “$10,000 boiler”
blew up.” Who are we, nothing

but tax-payers, to inquire who ;
is responsible? :

mio ie
‘The foregoing news-note leads
to some comments as to seman- ie
tics. The word SNAFU seems })
to apply to l’Affaire Pont Sonde, me
a term evolved by erudite ma-
riners in the U.S. ‘Navy during
World War II, Some day snafu
will be included in lexicons « of (Be
the English language; a bree
ful word but not forceful enough
x x X
Minister of Public Health Au
rele Joseph is the proud owner
of a new, home near Thomagsin Y
(above. Laboule), an architect-
ural gem; our compliments, —
xxx o
“Last week’, announces ou
colleague ‘‘Septentrion”; © th
young persons! were arrested at
Cap Haitien. It is said that the

 

are implicated in a libel affair”

“They were closely
at the Bureau of
X XS
Our colleague “!«
announces that sever>’
took place at Bel-Air.”
mex
“Last week, with fragment.
of broken glass (zinglins) ~
“commere” cut the carotid of
a lady: in the Bar of the “Che el
de Section” Davilmar at Bizo- ©
ton. The virago is at the dis- 4
posal of the justice.’ =——

= oat

questione,

 
  
 
  
    
   
   
    

Pofice.”

oe
Citoyen®:
cLEEe,

  
