 

Weekly
~~ Every
Sunday

 

- PORT-AU-PRINCE, MAITI — Avenue Marie-Jeanne — CITE DUMARSAIS EST

 

- Cayes Fetes

On June 23rd, 1962 at
Cayes, the Metropolis of
the South, the centenary

of the widow of Massillon |:

Desrosiers, born Ultima
Castel, was celebrated with
religious services and a ga-
thering of relatives from
roughout Haiti.

At the Aux Cayes Cathedral,
| companied by her two daught-
cvs Mrs Louis L. Marius (Lydie
Desrosiers) and Melle Marie Des-
vosiers the dignified Centenar-
ian received from ths hands of
ner grandson, the Reverend Fa
ther Anthony Marius,
‘Pestel, a gold chiseled meda!
oresented to her by the Brothers
of Saint-Paul. :

Mrs. Desrosiers was born dur-
ing the reign of President Gef-
frard before the Cathedral was
ecoustructed and nct long after

 

Cure o*

Centenarian

Simon Bolivar set off on his con-

quest of Spanish Venezuela from| between the Republic

that tour.

Monseigneur i.e Net celebrated
Mass and gave his biessing to
Mrs. ‘Desrosiers. «72 _-

Following the religious servi-
ees, the “Doyenne’ returned t5
ner home where she was feted

_y her family and cut her 1%0t

thday cake.

Care Man
~ Oft To Algeria

Dennis H, Morvissey with Care
a Haiti for the past twenty
months feft July 1st for Algeria
where he will be a member of
-he first Medico team: to tiat
strife-torn region. Mr. Morsissey

ho voiced his regrets at leay.

 

 

+ 2g Haiti will be the administra-

4x of the team of Medico doc-
27S and nurses.

 

 

j

sae

 

100 th

 

10c

IME — Phone 2061 — Vol KX — Sunday JULY 1st, 1962 — No. 39

Inniversary Of U.S. - Haiti

 

Diplomatic Relations To Be Marked

Mrs. ULTIMA DESROSIERS) ssn smetsin

A week of manifestations mar-

relatio is
of Haiti
and the United States of Ameri-
a opens July 5th at the Institut
Waitiano-Americain.

ishment of diplomatic

At 8pm Thursday evening Mr.| committee

Gerard M. Lauren director af
the National Museum will deliv-
er a talk on’ ‘‘Abraham Lincoln
Before The Ideals of Liberty and
Eiquality.”’

rhe program issvet hy the

 

Major Warrei presenting Jetter (see story below) to Pilot Dandin

 

/ Sudo Outlawed

COMMUNIQUE

( The Division ‘de la Defense So-
Giale, justly alarmed by the nu-
merous complaints issued from
victims of young mea devetees
f Judo, informs the public in
general and particulariy ditter-
ent sectors of the youit that the

 

The Reverend Father Anthony Marius, Cure of Pestel, pins a gold

medal of the Brothers of Saint-Paul on his grandmother.

  

 

The ‘“Doyenne” of the Metropolis of the South 4
> -yeceived congrtulatigns trom Monseigneur Le Net.

.

 

 

Medame Vve

birthday cake at her home in Aux Cayes.

 

‘Massillon Desrosiers cutting her 100th

ie

~

practice of such sport, liberating
the morbid mechanisi:: of ins-
Gucts of aggressivity, is likely

“o endanger acts of characteriz-

ed delinquency.

(Continued on page 11)

 

  
   
      

ie

Le

oe

dations.

ie
ie

of the Ceéenieimary
(1862-1962) is as fctiows:
Friday July 6, 1962--
8:00pm—Institut TWaitianc-Ame-
ricain (Lincola Auditorism)
Concert de Piano Guy Seott.
Presentation de Mr. Yvus Au-
guste.
(Continued on page 3)

iviunro Here 1930-32
returning For Talk

Fermer Miu'ster Plenipotentia-
~y to Haiti and Latin American
histor.am, Dr. Dana Gardner.
Manre, « seheduled to arrive
here Friday noon aboacd PAA
Flight 431.

Dr. Muro, who was Minister
‘9 Haiti from 1930-32, is retara-
ing to participate in celebvations
varsng the 00th anniversary of
aitian-American diplomatic ve-
the esnteanary
‘rogram he will present a lect-
awe on “Charles Sunmer” at the
Haitian-American Instifute July
‘1 at 8pm. On the closing day of
manifestations July 12th, Dr.
Munro and members of the Cen-
tennary Committee will place a

(Continued on page 12)

New US Military
Attache

One of the first act of
Major John W. Warren,
newly appointed Military
Attache with the U.S. Em-
bassy here this week was
‘he presentation of a letter
of commendation to Em-
manuel Dandin a Port au
Prince harbor pilot.

The letter written by Captain —
2. F. Barry Jr. of the USS Ply-—
mouth Rock stated that Pilot
Dandin ‘“‘showed himself to be
1 very capable and proficient
ship-handler”’ when docking and
indocking his ship. Captain Bar-
‘y explained in his letter add-
‘essed to the Captain of ‘the
2ort and Ambassador Thurston

(Continued on page 11)

Congo Restaurant

OPENED BY ROGER SATEH

Energetic, resourceful Roger
Saieh is off on another venture
—bar, restaurant, dance sessions
and shows— all at the Beau Ri-
age in the outdoor nightclub.

Saturday nights you can dance
to Weber Sico’s musie from nine
io closing. Shows will begin next
Saturday, and Roger promises
they will be big and good.

Then there will be dancing —
every Sunday, from 10 a.m. to.

 

 

Under

 

  
 

 

1:30, with one band, and then

(Continued on page ii)
Seen e

PAGE 2

“In Haiti This Week

By AUBELIN JOLICOEUR

**Sprightly and cheerful Mrs. Hazel Ruth
Thurston “arrived bere Monday afternoon and
was greeted at the airport by her son, the Am-
s bassador of the United States in Port au Prince
; and Mrs Raymond Thurston and their lovely
. blonde daughter Ruth.
f Mrs Hazel Thurston is°from St. Louis, Mo.
She is on a three week visit here with son and

 

   

family.
*e'Sweet Madeleine (Mag) McKernan was on the verge, of tears

 

_when she left Haiti last week in/eompany with her travelling com-

: ; panions Mary Heynis and Fay Roush. The three girls are from

: ‘Illinois. ‘Guests at the Ibo-Lele, they were guided around by the
Southerland Tours.

— Miss Sondra P, Vilardi, a Correspondent for the American

- telephone and telegraph Company of New York and Susan S, Ayres

& sciences from the University of California and Dr.

 

~ pital...” Albert Dadlani,
France: last week in a trip around the World. He will see his sick

. week from Guatemala where they attended the annual Congress
a of the American . Horticultors Association,
; Head of the Research Department of HADO and Dr. Bullard as
a Research Advisor for the same. Haitian American Development
i Organization. Dr. Jolicoeur made a very interesting expose whic: |

a gee retary are here on an undecided length of time visit. The visit-

ors arrived Jast Wednesday and took lodging at the Ibo-Lele. Pretty

Sondra is still reluctant to committing lightly. Susan has found
her match in Sidney Cawley.
ee ““Tengineer Rene Dasen, a Carto Technician for the Inter-Ame-

‘rican Geodetic Survey (IAGS) arrived last week in company with
“his beautiful, honey. skin wife Benita from Panama and his three

daughters Denise 10, Janice 8 and Cynthia 7, and son Rene Micn-

“ael_6. ‘Engieneer Dasen replaces. here the project engineer of the
SATAGS

Frank Chaves.
“Sam Ziskind is back after seven years. Tall and ‘“‘sympathi-
que’ Sam spent two years mere from 1953 to 1955 as Head of the
CARE: He was very efficient and devoted worker to help the
Country after the Hurricane Hazel which caused such havoc: here
He left Haiti for Laos and South Vietnam and Morrocco. Two

‘years ago he left CARE FOUNDATION to become a language

teacher (French and Spanish in ‘a New York High School).

“Dr, Jacques A. Jolicoeur, a Haitian Ph. D. in agricultura:
' Erwin T. But-
lard,, an American Ph .D. in agricultural sciences returned las:

Dr. Jolicoeur as the

will be published in the Magazine of the American Horticultors
Association.

“Lan Grant Rawson, a youthful teacher from Hartford, Cot
is back here to spend the summer vacations with mother Gwes
Mellon, wife of the Founder of the Deschapelles’ Schweitzer Hes:
owner of the Little Europe flew by An

aa grandmother in Pakistan after 17 yearS and will also visit the

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

‘student at the: Wood School of Park Avenue, New York...
: aud Simone Etheart just arrived from New York where they went

sister Jacqueline with Dr.
_, in St. Patrick Church in New York on June 3... .

' Specialization’s studies...
- graduate in- Finance and Philosophy from Ohio State University
' stopped here this week-end. Carolyn was delighted with her 24 hour

visit here. She made plan for a neha trip mext year..

and his ‘“‘ravissante”’

parents .of ‘his wile in Japan... Mrs* Paul Blanchet, wife-of tie

_ Minister of Information and Coordination flew to U.S. this weex
“on a four week health trip...
the Ford Agent here, Mr. Carl Behrmann and his wife flew to
Luther Gullick Camp: in Maine for two months...

Lissa Behrmann, pretty daughter of

Kent Ravens-
evoft, Jr. a medical aiden from St. Louis, Mo is back here again...
Mrs Joseph Salgado, former Elsa Greger flew to New York last
week to attend the graduation of her daughter Mika who is a
Marie

io attend the religious ceremony of the marriage of their ‘‘jole’
John Dooley. The ceremony was held
~ Young Dr, Car] Garniel returned to New York to resume his

Lovely Carolyn Elizabeth Angell, a new

Preity
‘blonde Barbara Lou Bennet, an employee of Pan Am in Miami
is visiting here this week.

*Mike Wade, a youthful Salesman for the IBM in Montreal
blonde wife Patricia, a receptionist for an
architect, married on June 16 just spent a few days of their
huneymoon trip in the Caribbean here. Patricia, a delightful dancer,

Peat SN

‘d audience in raptures last Friday at the Katherine Dunham's
“bitation Leclere, The pleasant couple plans to come back here
al soon.

“Haitian Banker Clemard Joseph Charles, President-Director
ot the Banque Commerciale d’Haiti returned last week from a two
week business trip in the U.S. in company with his charming wife
James
R. Greene, Vice-President of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Company of Wall Street, New York. Mr. Greene came to visit the
Banque Commerciale with which his bank plans to do some bus-
iness. Mr. Charles was honored by the Mayor of New York, Mr.
Wagaer who made him a Honorary Citizen of the Big City. He

Sophie. Clemard was also accompanied here Friday by Mr.

was presented with the Golden Key of New York by Assistant
Mayor O’Brien,

“Dr, Herman Herbert Insel who arrived here Thursday is the

jew Head of the Focus Inc of Port de Paix. He replaces his ophtal-

mologist colleague Dr. Richard Underriner. He was preceded here
Jast month by Drs. James McDonald and Arthur ‘Light the two
Ophtalmologists who first started the FOCUS program in Haiti.
They came here to look over the possibility of enlarging the. pro-
gram. They, in fact, went to Cayes in company. with Dr. Marc
Augustin, Administrator of the Port de Paix Hospital in view of
establishing a branch of the Focus there with their new ophtalnio-
ogists available. They have also decided to limit the consultations
of the FOCUS to the sole inhabitants of North West department
to stop the exodus of' all the eye-ill of Port au Prince and other
nlaces to Port de’ Paix, because they do not want their non-protit

organization to be a cause of competition to the Haitian ophtalmo-

logists.
The Focus ag will also reorganize the Sanatorium and the anti-
tuberculosis clinic of Port de. Paix. The necessary material will

be shipped here next month, Drs. McDonald and Light said.

 

   

>

POLLEY: FKP

GRACE L

ARE FOR HAITI
Ine Class

OXE;

g

g

 

GOGSLS

wo,

5 NEW YORK — PORT-AU- PRINCE

’

LS GF

.

Sox ASU PRINCE NEW TORRE ETAT EVERY SUNDAY )¥

  
  

Y 300 PASSENGERS
Y

  

FOR INFORMATION

J oseph N adal

 

 

"June: 30.
PDPPPPPPPPPPPISSHRGP

 

(DEPART
EVERY FRIDAY):

CARGO SHIPS (12 PASSENGERS) $135 — ALL YEAR

COMBO-SHIPS (52 PASSENGERS) FROM $155

* LUXURY SHIPS: SANTA ROSA — SANTA PAULA —
: FARE FROM

OF YOUR TRAVEL AGENTS

SUNDAY JULY 1st, 1962
“Misses Jacqueline Frocer,
Mona Kenol, Marie-Ange Rignud,
Myriam Turnier, Marie-Emetine
Hall Josseline Bellande arrived
last week-end from jamaica af-
ter completing two years study
at the Mount St. Josepn Acade.
my of Mandeville, cre of the
best Business college of Jamaica,
The girls are ready to work,
‘Iso -arrived Friday MatieFiens
‘oise Turnier, Micheline Ckarles, |
“elyn Watt, Marie dose Vin-)

-ent, Gabrielle Celestin who will
traduate next year from Mande-:
‘Ye and Francoise Borno and>
Marie Kathleen Gardere wil! gra- ;
uate also next year froin Im-
naculee, )
i‘

*'*Major John (Jack) Arthur
Buek of the USMC from Indepen-
dence, Mo arrived here lasi- Sa-
turday in company with his
charming “frau” Litzi and his.
son Rene Philippe 1-year. Major
Jack Buek arrived from Wash-
ington to replace Majer Trisvie
as Instructor of the talace
Guard. ;

  
    
   

*“Dr Maria Bourgeois of Huiti
and Mr Lawrence Weber Bihl
of Hamburg were ‘marvied on
June 30. The ceremony was held
n Hamburg and was witnessed
-y Dr. Maurice Bourgecis, the)
Bride’s brother, Consul Werner
Limberg who sponsored the stu
‘lies of Dr. Maria Bourgecis in
Gerraany and Miss Lely Desi-
nor whose studies are also on
sored by Consul Limberg, a1
_| many other relatives and friends
-|of Dr. Bourgeois and the parents
and friends of the Groom.

wer A very successful 4
party took place last Saturday
at Evona Bearch. The invitation
was mdde on the name af Mr,
and Mrs Ben: Shindler of the Ho:
fel El Rancho and the Kyona
Beach. It was to celebrate Pier re
ad’ Adesky’s birthday 0.4 Saturday

INE

$195.00

= Co!

oe CAML Mootle

    
   

SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962 3

SEL Ie es ON

 

s - PROPOSED SCHEDULE FOR

100th Anniversary
Celebration

(Continued from page 1)

FOR AIR FORCE CONCERT BAND —JULY 9-13

Monday July 9, 1962—-
8:00pm —Rex-Tientre
Concert ae Piano Joel Rosen
Presentation (2 Dr. Clovis
Kernisan, Recteur de iUni-
versite d’Etat

9: 30pm—Tele-Haiti
Recital par le Choeur de 1|’Or-
chestre de Ja Force Aerien-
ne des Etats-Unis canton-
ne a la Base de Albrook
(Canal de Panama).

Tuesday July 10, 1962—
4:30pm—Parade a travers la
ville de VOrchestre de la
Force Aerienne des Etats-
Unis. \
5:00pm.—Place des Heros de
1’ Independance
Concert au kiosque Occide
Jeanty par l’Orchestre de
la Force Aerienne des E-
tats-Unis.

 

JULY 9—

Morning arrival.—An officer, four men and  abugler to play

taps are in dress uniform on arrival, the Dessalines-Petion Man .
soleum can be decorated with a wreath en route to hotel.
_ 8:00pm.—

SR Danes Ae: : / \ Institut Haitiano-Americain
l ‘ \
(Linegln Auditorium)
Soiree Musicale

En iere partie:

pee de chants folkloriques

‘par le Choeur SIMIDOR. —
En-2eme partie:

‘| Recital de JAZZ par une se
lection de Orchestre de la
‘Force Aerienne des Etats-Unis
Presentation de Mr. Max Bis-
sainthe.

7:00—8:30pm—Full Band Concert at Casernes Jean-Jacques Des: ,
salines for officers of the Army, Air Force and Coast Guard.

- Choral Group can perform for intermission. Haitian National
aoa can be played at beginning of program,, American
anthem at end.

9: 3010: SEIT by Choral ‘Gia at “‘Tele-Haiti.

JULY 10—

4:00pm—Full Band to Parade from Embassy to the Place des
Heros de |’Independance (Champ de Mars), where a public, .
outdoor concert will begin at ‘5:00 pm and continue to 6:30
pm. Choral group and anthems can be used as before.

8:30—9:30pm—Five or six piece jazz combo and vocalist to play
a jazz concert at the Haitian American Institute as part of
Centennial series. This will be last half of a program which
begins with a Haitian Choral Group. =

Wednesday July i1, 1962—

7:30pm—Theatre de Verdure
Concert de musigue par 1’Or-
chestre de la Force Agrien-

| ne des Etats- Unis.
8: 00pm.—
‘Institut Haitiand wmereain:

(Lincoln Auditorium) .
Conference de Dr. Dana G.

7

JULY --—
Munro,

ordinaire et Ministre Ple-
nipotentiaire des Etats-Unis
en Haiti, sur ‘Charles Sum-
ner’,

Presentation de Dr. Jean
Price Mars, ex-Ambassa-
deur, Co-President du Co-
mite du Centenaire.

' 7:30—9: 30pm—Full Band Concert at the Theatre de Verdure
(open air amphitheater) with choral group performing during
intermission.

ie 30-10: 30pm—Full Dance Orchestra at Americ Abas) Re-
sidence, with possibility of choral group during a number or
' two for intermission. The entire group of officers and men
will be invited to attend this reception in honor of the 100th Thursday July 12, 1962.—
Anniversary of the Recognition of Haiti by the United States.

Busses and drivers will be available at all times for local trans- 10:00am.—Mausolee des Heros

de 1’Independance

Dr. Dana G. Munro, entoure
des membres du Comite du
Centenaire, depose une
couronne au Mausolee des
Heros de l’Independance.

» portation, courtesy of the Haitian Ministry of Tourism.

—<— $$

 

FOR SALE

\ Buick hardtop in excellent

condition is up for sale as own-

is leaving the country. Also

) almost new singer sewing

achine with a beautiful cabin-
et. a

IDENTITY PHOTOS — PASSPORT PHOTOS
i DEVELOPING — ENLARGEMENTS — REPRODUCTIONS

FASTEST SERVICE IN TOWN

Can be seen in the afternoons
t Major O’Nelis on th eMonta-
na Road across the sireet from
Maison Fortune Bogat. s

Avenue Marie-Jeanne, No. 5 — Cite de l’Exposition

 

 

 
   
 

ex-Envoye Extra-|

 

 

     
      

WATCHES OF GREAT DISTINCTION

TO GIVE AND WEAR WITH PRIDE
&

 
 

    

Ref. 7317 «Nec Plus Ultra» of selfwinding
watches - 39 Jewels - Gyrotron powered.
See the superb 1960 Girard-Perregaux soe
«Selection» models at. foremost jewellers. f

  
  

YON SALE AT THE
BETTER STORES

ANNOUNCES

A SPECIAL SUMMER COURSE
BEGINNING JULY 2nd, 1962

DAILY COURSES IN

1.— Classical Ballet
2.—Modern Ballet
3.—Tap Dance
4._Haitian Folklore
5.—Ballroom Dancing and special training in “Pas

. de Deux”, and Choreography.
School located on the Champ de Mars, next to Rex Theater.

REGISTRATION DAILY FROM 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
ee ee ou ete SUNT Fe SUNDAY JULY 1st, 1962

fm

 

 

Parliamentary Debates About
= The Rural Market

The problem of Rural Market 5) tion, the question is “‘importaci | ‘hese last words of Cambron-
cas debated at the Legislative nda “moral extension ol time ~e's: received great and ent us
- Chamber, Monday morning. |should be permitted to everyon?)"‘astic applauds from the numev-

The Ministers of Finances, | to think the matter through ford] ous audiences.
Commerce, Industry and Agri-}and propose splutlions: amend-| Dr, Herve Boyer, Secretary of
culture represented the Execut-| ments, ete,’’ State of Finances and Economic
The thesis of Deputy Cambrcn-| Affairs, followed Cambronne to
f Here is the summary a elec approved by the audi- the tribune. In a brief improvisa-

debate at that meetirg ees ae tion, he exhorted the parliamen-
Deputy Hugo Paul quickly re-/tarians to come to an agreement
Ma. Hugo Paul, reporter of the plied Cambronne, pr Git ext ; ng n order to examine the pzrincip- Ia
~ commission of 19 members form- against the, thesis on immediate | jes which will govern the mark-
© sain prepare a veport’ on this| 2 en roaching the latter ets, and to seek for a basic de- JOHNNIE WALKER
_« subject, requested permission to fcr wanting an attitude quite dif. inition of rural, urban, commu-| })
in \ ~ ‘erent than that of the commis-j a] markets etc. Only at this BS Bora 12
‘speak in the name of the, com- _ , ee =e 1820 — wet going ng
mission. He made a substantial pe : el PELCES will’ definitive work be ; e
expose and presented a project DDE: Cambronne inounted up made, and we will not have to
of law prepared by’ the commis- ,the tribune to emphasize that,fgive up a new law because of
‘sion. contrary to what_his colleague | imperfection or other reasons. Exclusive Agent: LIONEI. S. DPADESKY ~—
oa thought, his attitude towards the| Nobody requested permission Si
Atter lecture of the report, the main point had not changed but} ‘o speak about questions of yen | _

Br ecident Hee AecNhig onen that he would like, As his coll-|srai interests, the president. of

~<a the debate. Mr. Hugo Paul, eague Rameau Estime of Ver-|the Assembly gave wise advice
rettes remarked, “‘to give every- ‘to. the parliamentaries and cjos Qeverveee Ox; ae bpb> bp bxlbzle, Ooo

the reporter, called for urgency} | t:.16 to think, so that it alllad the meeting. FRIDAY NIGHT

ive,

 

 

 

 

"and immediate vote for both. his y ' g
“report and the project of Law. ended in a truly conscious and} : a }
~ Deputy Luckner Cambronne, the well thought vote.” ">> | (“Le Matin” June 26, 1962.) a R S)
e first to bring up this question at} ; x - ; ( : S)
‘the tribune of the Parliament, ~% FAMOUS CREOLE BUFFET 8 P.M. »
spoke to second the urgency re- ; * I La M
quested by the Deputy of Bale-| Cartbhean Construction Co. SA. | Q NATIVE FLOOR SHOW 9PM. §
eS A S ~

ties tt te ceed 6 tee] Builders OF The Military City | DANCING 10 nie must Ox THE = @
: porter. For, in the opinion of the - Gen. Manager: Gerard THEARD. CASTEL COMBO UNTIL 12 PM ©
Phone: 3955. P.O. BO . 284 CAOACADAO EO ges >dSOOQL

: Deputy of the 6th circonscrip- J : -r.WU.E

 

 

 

 

SG ee GOP L0YYH YPYOETTYPEYEISIEYIIIOIGOOOE 5

5 umier Rates FFF :

; LIPLLPL

Rent a car

 

FROM APRIL 15 TO DECEMBER 14

 

Hourly Rate (Minimum 4 Houts) $ 1.00 plus 8 c per Mile
. Daily Rate (24 Hours) , $ 7.00 plus 8 c per Mile
Weekly Rate $35.00 plus 8 c per Mile

a (RATES FOR SPORT CARS SLIGHTLY HIGHER)

_ ASK FOR QUOTATION ON LONG TERM RENTALS

YALL RATES INCLUDE:
Gas, Ol Tasueance ge Maps : , oe
NO EXTRA CHARGES FOR:

Airport, Hotel, or Pier Pick-Ups or Deliveries

 

net : ' MG Roadster:
FIESTA CAR RENTALS OF HAITI

, HERTZ RENT A CAR

AUTO S. A., General Agents (Next to All America Cables)
3860 Avenue Jean-Jacques Dessalines
Phones: 3184 — 2772
HOSTELLERIE DU ROI he
SUB-AGENT
P. O. Box 46
CAP-HAITION — HAITI

COCOCOL OC COCOCOES | QOS SPS OOOCS

‘ \
i air unt ‘
‘ . : ‘ x

  

 

 
SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962 -

HAITI SUN

THE HAITIAN ENGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER
Community Weekly Published Sunday Morning
Editor-Publisher BERNARD DIEDERICB
Gerant-Responsable MAUCLAIR LABISSIERE
ESTABLISHED IN 1950

 

ee}

GERMANS HELP SUPPLY WATER

 

Last year Point Four financed a well in the Cul de
Sac upon which several farmer cooperatives based the
development of Winter Vegetable production, mostly

cucumbers. It was a fairly lucrative development for
the farmers concerned.

This year the German Government donated $25,000
to the Haitian Department of Agriculture which is be-
iug used to finance the boring of wells and installation
of irrigation equipment in the same region. During the
past several weeks water technicians at Damien have
brought in a well at Drouillard, close to Mais Gate,
which yields 1000 gallons per minute and it is estimat-

ed will irrigate 300 acres of winter vegetables (about|(.

60,000 crates or 3 million pounds in terms of winter
cucumbers). With the financing of the German Gov-
ernment another well is being bored at Constard.

The Germans at the same time have agreed to spons-
or the supplying of water to Father Roger Riou’s Hos-
pital on He de La Tortue. The water will be piped and
pumped up from a spring down near sea level and car-
ried up to the Plateau where the hospital and village
have grown up using rain water.

FOR A MODERN PRODUCE MARKET

Sometimes we have occasion to visit the coastwise
wharves, (Cabotage) west of Croix des Bossales and the
extensive open-air market that has taken root under
the rusting iron girders that is the unfinished market
begun six years ago.

From the voiliers, small coastwise sailing ships and
moivr vessels are unloaded, salt from Gonaives and
farther North, charcoal oranges, mangoes, avocadoes,
plantains, pumpkins, squash and peanuts, timber for

‘building supports, earthen-ware pots from Gonave
island, sand and gravel for building-materials etc.

Most of these products find there way across the
street into the busy Croix des Bossales market where.
they are augmented by other imports from the proyin-
ces brought in by camions that now have their termi-
nus 4 jacent te the wharf.

Much of the produce such as salt and Balinccina.
terials is stored in little make-shift houses along the
sea-front in the area known as La Saline.

But Croix des Bossales and La Saline do not accom-
modate all such imports from the provinces. The streets

leading to the Iron Market are lined with warehouses | ¢

which serve as depots for produce arriving by camion
from Cap Haitien, Limbe and other points in the North
and irom Cayes in the south. These depots are not se-
gregated by products, but by regions of origin. ~

The displacement of the La Saline population to Cite} |

Simone Duvalier the North side of Hasco is well intend-
ed and no doubt well planned. At present the National
Renovation Movement is working on an expansion pro-

gram of 9,500 housing units each with water and dom-| ‘

estic facilities — a far cry from living conditions in

old Lau Saline. Along with rehousing the population a
wharf is being constructed in view of moving the trad-
ing from La Saline to the new city with low-cost hous-

ing.

The feasibility of moving this trading
the proximity of the heart of the city is questionable.

it has been suggested that the old Croix des Bossales

market be rehabilitated and using the ajacent open OOo SOLO OOOO OOOO OS OEG

ee FH

center out of

Pe Ae Pe UU aIN

PAGE §

 

eld that was once a squalid slum, construct a modern
produce market, a center for the produce of all the
provinces. It could feature the wealth of produce from
ill corners of the country.

One suggestion is that it be an open-air market with
stalls that would be cheap and hence economically easi-
y feasible, but because exposed to the sun and breeze
it could be more:sanitary. Constructed by modern Hai-
fian engineers in ascending terraces, with fountains
ighting at night it could be architecturally pleasing.

Finally better conditions and comfort should be af-
ferded the marchands perhaps the hardest working
seople as a class in the country.

A central site in which the marchands may display
md dispose of their produce to the best advantage.

 

< 5

TROPIGAS

 

   

‘

INC.

TROPICAL GAS COMPANY,

Makes everyday a “Holiday” in your kitchen... Use
the “Gold Star Award” winner, the TROPIGAS range.
No finer range anywhere today.

EFFLEX TOP BURNER — A single flame with
countless accurate stages of adjustment for every cook-
ing need — from fast boiling or frying down to gentle
boiling.

EQUAFLO OVEN BURNER — Makes possible new
perfection. Heat is spread in a rectangular pattern, the
shape of the oven and broiler. No hot center, no cold
corners.

PIN POINT PILOTS — Cool, economatic Pin Point
Pilots are only one third the size of ordinary pilots —
a-flame so tiny it keeps range cool in 1 any weather, and
saves you money, too.

HUGE OVEN with visualite window.

LIFT TOP BURNER and PULL-OUT BROILER for
easier, more thorough cleaning.

ECONOTROL BURNER makes every ustensils au-
tomatic.

Lifetime guarantee of all Hiphere!

4

Too many features to list here. You must see it to

appreciate. it. Easy terms too.

TROPICAL GAS COMPANY, INC.
RUE PAVEE

 

 

    
      

  

Y Ru tiie aime Helis is ¥ olorles Eee of the Casino

SHOW AT MIDNIGHT
CHOICE MUSIC BY
THE CASINO INTERNATIONAL
directed by the
MAESTRO QUESNEL DUROSEAU

AY,
S
x

“THE AGE OF

ren <8
-,
é

HAPPY PROBLEMS” —
by HERBERT GOLD.

Authors are becoming crash- 3

a
a

ingly adept at filling books with a

nothingness. A glib or morose

belief tha life is terribly mean-

ingless provides the spur. One
spur, anyway. Another, of cour-

xe, is the ritual threat of nucl- 3

rar extermination,

A grim prospect, Jadies and —
-entlmen. Yet these books that

) oddly conform to standardiz-

‘d attacks on conformity really

ffer eryptic flashes of hope.
Such as? Well, such as each

junior Jeremian’s obvious belief —

hat he and his loved ones will

somehow survive to collect roy-

‘ies from his book of dire fore: —
odings. And live to stretch the —
‘ense of direness to something —
‘aleable in the range of 60,000 —
And, ‘

9 120,000 words open
again. —

When the Authors Teague no- =

tifies us that dozeas of eminent —

orephets of social, economic and
mertial disaster are giving their
masterful manuscripts to their
publishers absolutely free,

enee on the boskier reaches of

the Appalachian Trail. Not be-
‘ore, though, ‘ 3
- Meantime, let us appreciate

these hostages to misfortune. It

suld be graceless to doubt their —
‘woody sincerity. They are trying —
‘o tell us something. Just what

they are trying to tell us in their
oreoccupation with encroaching
nothingness may sometimes be
difficult to say.

When that’ kind of going gets

we ©
may take up permanent resid- —

Coty

tedious we can turn from the vi- _
vacious reformers to a+ writer —

like Herbert Gold, who in “The
Age of Happy Problems’”’ turns.
‘ye tables and anatomizes the
anatomists of stylish despair.

Happy Stories for TV
Do not be misled by his heay-

ily satiric title. It is taken froin
the maxim of a television produ-

cer who once said to him in a —

sternly waggish way:

“No, Mr. Gold, I don’t think —

‘ou understand what we wan!.

“

Jhappy people with happy pO :

Apparently Mr. Gold, who is a-

fine story-teller and novelist, did
not particularly want to share —

that want _ wealth.

His new book—a collection of
pieces written over the last doz-
en years or so—idealistically
proves that whenever
life threatened to become the
happy story of a happy man
with happy problems he faced
the jeopardy with what I can
only call wonderfully stoic reliss.
Tf he forced himself to go to
Fjorida in the winter he did not
allow the sunlight to blind him
to the universal perplexities of
the human condition. If his schol-
arly interests necessitated pass-
(Continued on page 14)

his own
 

 

 

States

 

PAGE 6

 

The First &:

 

RIC EE

 

Fourth Of July

On July 4 each year United
citizens _celebrute their
national independence day -- a

- tribute to that brave band cf pa-
- {riots who made up the ‘Continen

tal Congress and adopted the De-
elaration of Independenve in
1776, :

The Fourth of July memovitl

izes the day the-Continental Con-
gress, a group of weary
ates from 13 war-battered cton-

de'ez-’

ies, adopted the Declaration that

group of separate colonies

lie as a
and
marked its birth as a unified na-
tion. .

ended the country’s

Rebellious against British tyr-

anny, the Congress anpr ved the

famed document written by Tho

mas Jéfferson that eoniains the

these

oft-quoted words .-We ~ hold
truths to be se'fevident,
that all men are created equal,

- that they are endowed by their

  
 
    
   
  

 

Creator with certain unalienab-
le Rights, that among these are
Life, ee and the pursuit of
Happiness...

t
+

fly 4 1776, was a day of abril:
liant sunshine in Phitad!phia.
Thomas ‘Jefferson, 33, younyest

CENTRE D’ART

Declaration

| advantages,

member of the Virginia deiega-
tion, noted the pleasant wearhe:
a his diary. He had written the
declaration in- the se‘:cend-tooi
parlor of the Philadelphia home
where he was residing white the
Congress was in session. ~

Jefferson left his — rooming-
couse for Pennsylvamas brick
State House — now known as In-
jependence Hall. In this siruct-
ure from 40 to 50 representatives
if the 13 colonies had for sever-
| days been discussing adoption
- an independence declavation
Benjamin Frautelin, sticky and
hearty despite his 70 years arid
a recent siege of gout, accom-

panied: Jefferson into the hali.

s Jefferson was also. jzined hy
John Adams> and with Frankli:
they placed their chairs in a
small group beside one of fhe
writing tables. Adams told his
close friends that he believed the
should have been
adopted months ago but then he
added that the delay had some
“Time has been giv:
an for the whole people to con
sider ‘this great question matu-
“ely. This will cement the uni-

on.?? ¥ i i

/

 

NOTICE

Note To Att Connoisseurs
_ The CENTRE D’ART is open ALWAYS daily

from 9 am to 12:

30 pm

from 2:30 pm to-5:00 pm

: And Sundays by. appointment.

Permanent exhibition ae on the gallery’s Second storey
and a current show hangs in the gallery’s first floor.

Persons ‘with an appreciation of art will be reward-

ed by visiting the Art Center.
FOUNDED IN 1944.

   

~

Rue de la Revotution

 

 
 
 
 

Ra ti

   
   
   
 
  
 
 

||FOCUSING, COMPOSING AND
EXPOSURE SETTING IX ONE |
COMMON VIEWER— chon

REFLEX CAMERA WITH
~ NIKKOR, 50mm F:2.5 LENS.
35mm. SINGLE, —LENS—

Nikkorex _

THE HOME OF EXQUISITE GIFTS ©

 

 

 

At the far end of the room
Tohn Hancock, president of th<
Continental Congress, called tie

-meeting to order, After the De

clarution was read in a stirring
‘oice by Benjamin Harrison o
Virginia, the delegaes sat for ¢
moment in complete  sile:ce
“yen in a sudden release from
tension, they rose from t”el
t of joviality that has traditioy
seats, clapped one another 0
he back, and entered into a spir
t of joviality that has tradition
ly characterized the celebra
‘on of the Fourth of July.

News of the adoption of the

Jeclaration of Independence &

spread rapidly through crowd"
vaiting outside the State House
and .then to other colonies. A
4ronicler of the Times reports’
‘The. excited multitude in t:e
treets responded with loud ac-
‘lamations and with cannon

peals, bonfires and illuminations, *

he patriots held glorious carni-

‘ that night in the quiet c'ty|

of Pennsylvania’.

Not until almost 11 o’clock on
Muy 4 ‘did Thomas Jefferson
climb the stairs to this front par-
lor, light ae ‘ couple of candles,
and sit down at his desk. He
wrote a ‘number of letters re-
viewing the day’s events for his
wife and colleagues in Virginia!

“Tt is a heavenly comfort,’’ he]*

said, ‘‘to see that these princip-
les of liberty are so strongly
felt. I pray God they may be
eternal’.

 

PANAM CARGO
MAN CALLS

Jonn Piskie, Pan Am Cargo
Sales Superintendent for Latin

+ America, on, visit in Haiti for

Pan Am Cargo Business, had

lunch with Atherton Lee at. Cha-

telet des Fleurs on Friday, left

Pe pies uan Saluncay

 

 

Nikon
QUALITY
OFFERED
IN
MEDIUM PRICE
JAMERA !

ai

New At: LITTLE EUROPE

 

Y UNICOS

 

 

SUNDAY JULY ist, 1962

 

The famous painting “Spirit of ’76’’ shows a fife and drum corps—
om the seene of battle during the Revolutionary War. The original
painting was presented to the town of Marbelhead Massachusetts, -
by Revolutionary War General Glover. It was painted by Archibald’
M., Willard and now hangs in Abbot Hall, Marblehead.

 

 

LYELL LYSLYLYYOTOSGOOD
3 “Drambuie LIQUEUR >

  
    

AND

FESTIVITIES

gy The only sweet LIQUEUR ‘made in Scotland on
the basis ot the finest pure old SCOTCH WHISKY.
Y Indispensable _ es festivities and for every’ occa~

   
 
   
 

©
es :
AGENTES ~

©
»

       

  

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS:

L. Preetzman- pee iol & Co.
CAA GREECE

36K -

Art Ga LLery
on Rue du Qua

DAINTINGE by
dedor

J.E .Gourgue
M.Denis
L.Lazard
J. Gabriel
N.Jean

| Sculptures by
R.FRANGOIS
J. Du Perrier
O.pu PERRIER
A DiMANCHE
SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962

TELE-HAITI WEEKLY SCHEDULE
‘FROM JULY 2nd TO JULY 8th, 1962

 

MONDAY JULY 2nd, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haiti)

5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule & Weather Report

6:00pm—Let’s Learn English

6:40pm—Children’s program

7:00pm—

7:30pm—Children’s program (2nd part)

7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the day’s events

8:00pm—The Ford Show, new series: FURIE :

§:30pm—Alfred Hitchcock presents.

9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporter

9:05pm—Powell Industrial Works’ weekly program: “‘I Love Lucy”

9:30pm—TV Concert

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

-

TUESDAY SULY 3rd, 1962
5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haiti)
5:59pm—Evening General Program Schedule
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English
6:35pm—Children’s Program
6:40pm—Children: Program
7:00pm—NOBBE & BONDEL presents: ‘‘My Three Sons”
7:30pm—Children’s program: second edition

By 45pm—Telenews (1st edition) Review of the day’s events
8: 00pm—America speaks to you :
8: 30pm—Tetectnema: (st part)
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre

sented by the Esso Reporter

9:05pm—Telecinema (Cont'd)

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

ye

WEDNESDAY JULY 4th, 1962
5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire ‘Tele-Haiti)
5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule
6:00pm—Let’s Learn English
6:35pm—Children’s Program
6:40pm—Children’s program: Cartoons
7:00pm—Dragnet, with Jack Webb
7:30pm—Children’s program: Cartoons
7:45pm—Telenews (1st edition) Review of the day’s events
8:00pm—Les Dames du Corps Diplomatique Presentent
8;15pm—Actualites d’Israel

8:30pm—Boulangerie La Poste presents a new chapter of ‘‘Le

Comte de Monte Christo’’
9:00pm—Telenews (2nd editiop) Summary of ‘the late news, pre-
i sented by- the Esso Reporter

9:05pm—Heraux Tours Program ‘‘Le Livre des Voyages”’
9:20pm—STATE TROOPER

_ 9:45pm—Germany Today (Documentary)

10:00pm—Close of program.— National Anthem

/

.

THURSDAY JULY 5th, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haiti)

5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule

6:00pm—Let’s Learn English

6:35pm—Children’s Program

6:40pm—Children’s program

7:00pm—ICI INTERPOL (last week episode)

7:30pm—Children’s program (2nd edition)

7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the day’s events

8:00pm—M. SQUAD presented by M & S Construction

8:30pm—Telecinema J

9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporter

9: 05pm—Telecinema (Cont'd)

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

FRIDAY JULY 6th, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haiti)

5:55pm—Evening General Program Schedule

6:00pm—Let’s Learn English

6:35pm—Children’s eroerent

7:00pm—

7:30pm—Heure Enfantine No. 2

SH ATT 1S UN CAGE 7

— eee eee

LUNCH DINE HAVE.

7:45pm—Telenews (ist edition) Review of the ‘day's events

8:00pm—Sea Hunt COCKTAILS
8.30pm- Le Dernier des Mohicans presenied by “Banque Com- Excellent Lobster Dishes
me;Ciale d Haiti” A SPECIALITY

9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporter

9:05pm—Tele-Sport

2:30pm—Gun Smoke

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

SATURDAY JULY With, 1962

5:30pm—Musical Program (Mire Tele-Haiti)

6:00pm—Presentation of Evening Program

6:05pm—Let’s Learn English — Review of the courses of the week

7:00pm—Children’s Program — Wells Fargo Tales and Cartoons.

 

By The Sea-Side
At
KYONA BEACH
Have Your Party At
KYONA
Swim, Spearfish, Snorkle, —
Water-Ski And Sail
In’ Safe Coastal Waters

”

7:45pm—Telenews (1st edition) Review of the day’s events From KYONA
8:00pm—OUR MISS BROOKS i DEEP-SEA FISHING
8:30pm—Pan American World Airways Program: Ici Interpol EXCURSIONS :

9:00pm—Telenews (2nd edition) Summary of the late news, pre-
sented by the Esso Reporter

9:05pm—German Actualities with Gerard Jolibois

9: 20pm—Tele-Sport

10:00pm—Close of program — National Anthem

SUNDAY JULY th, 1962
12:30pm—Musical program — Mire Tele-Haiti
1:00pm—Program Schedule

il 05pm—Widen your knowledge
1:20pm—Children’s Program
1:30pm—Children’s program

2: 00pm—Tele-Journal

3:00pm—USANA Program: DESTINATION DANGER
3:30pm—Wagon Train

4:30pm—Telecinema

6:00pm—End of program — National Anthem,

 

Agents.
JOSEPH NADAL & Oo.

 

|’ Real Estate Agency
LOISEAU & Co.

15 Bourdon

‘Phone 2620
fee ee

 

 

 

 

DLA 1 bat BL x1 dD of > oO “Cable Address: AFLOICO
~ Beautiful Peligre Lake $)) sein i,
» || ments, Bungalows, Camping
‘y
Soe any and all who wish to partake of the beautifut ee oe ae
bodes of a peaceful vacation amidst the sur-
, roundings of nature’s own greenery. S|] Sales information available
, oe Aus From Port au Prince » ee Ramee: pee
_ HUNTING FISHING  $ ; a
ig airs ge ee ae ese CaP rag As Scent 0 ee) estates of various types and-
4 SWIMMING .... ...... RECREATION -Y sizes and in improved and [
2 BUNGALOW .... ... RESTAURANT 3 unimproved -condition.
2 WATER= SKI RELAXE -—=5 _ Commercial business such |
Q Hor your reservation, cali up in ODVA Radio-Station at) pte, Tae Aa hol |
A PORT AU PRINCE y Joseph LOISEAU' |
Corner Rue du Centre and des Cesarg 68. »)] Manager I

DRT IRR TR

 

>

SP

e
oy

\ia\\

 

Haiti's “Gingerbread Palace” and famed hostelery —

the Grand Hotel Oloffson, show place on

Haitian architecture, exquisite cuisine and contented living. Set amongst a myriad of tropical frees

and gardens the Oloffson, complete with miniature pool, is the haven for the uninhibited,
 

 

SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962

 

© Autos - Product Of The

With investor confidence at its lowest ebb since Dwight Hisen-
Fower's heart attack and Big Board stock prices falling $6 billion
in one day’s trading, Wall Street last week was a cheerless place

“for anyone trying to peddle large blocks of stock. So discouraging

was the atmosphere that long-scheduled salés of stock in two
eminently solid corporations (Kellogg Co. and McGraw-Hill Pub-

~ lishing) were abruptly postponed by the investment bankers under-

 

 

 

  

writing them. But the Street’s hard-eyed moneymen tock a differ-

_ ent view when 430,000 shares of General Motors Corp. went on the

biock. Within minutes, they tumbled all over one another plunking
down $23 million to grab up every share.

In the annals of U.S. business, 1962.seems destined to go down
as a General Motors year. Already the world’s biggest manuiac-
turing corporation (more than $8 billion in assets), G. M. last week
was growing in every direction, At home in the U.S., G.M.’s bread-
and-butter car, the standard-sized Chevrolet, was outselling ‘the
rival Ford Galaxie by nearly 2 to 1. ‘In Germany, G.M.’s Opel sub-
sidiary was gearing up for all introduction of its new Kadett eco-
nomy sedan—which seemed certain to lift still higher G.M.’s 11
percent share of world auto sales outside the U.S. In space, the
giant auto-maker’s AC Spark Plug division won a $16 imillion con-
tract to build the guidance system for the Apollo moonship. And
good as all this was, General Motors’ precise, silver-haired Chair-
man Frederic Garrett Donner, 59, was expecting even better. To
a blue-ribbon business audience at New York's Waldorf-Astoria,
he calmly predicted that in the next two years ‘an expanding
economy will bring sales to an even higher level.”

The Better Half. These confident words could not have come
ata better time for the U.S. economy. For weeks past, executives
i many areas of U.S. business have been increasingly outspoken
in their fears that 1962 may. slip by without bringing them the

" THROUGHOUT THE WORLD—

 

 

-Wbite Label’ IS YOUR

PASSPORT TO PLEASURE -

famous name to remember, wherever you are.
every golden drop you sense the glorious soft-
&s of patiently malted barley, the faint lingering
agrance of the peat fire, and that delicate favour
tare qualities, these! 4

White Label”

IWAR’S SCOTCH WHISKY

NFVER VARVES

=~ IT

Agent Distributor: :
48, Rue du Magasin de VEtat — Phone: 3721 -
P. 0. Box 1207

 

  
 
 
   

seally strong recovery they had expected after last year’s reces-
sion. By contrast, Detroit looks forward to a year in which auto
sales, including joreign imports, seem likely to hit at least 6,700,000
cars—a figure second only to 1955's record 7,170,000. Since the
suto industry and its suppliers account for one out of every 19
‘obs in the nation, such a surge in car sales should give a sign-
iticant lift to the whole economy. fo :

Every U.S. auto company is_ contribution to —and benefiting
from— this surge, but none so much as General Motors With its
standard models reinforced by the pizazz-laden Corvair Monza and
the compact Chevy I, G.M.’s Chevrolet division alone has grabbed
off more of the U.S. auto market (30 percent) than the whole Ford
Motor Go. (26.2 percent). Y
and solid, though less dramatic, increases for Pontiac, Oldsmobile
end Buick, General Motors as a whole now accounts for 52.2 per-

Between Chevrolet’s runaway success

cent of all the cars sold in the U.S. (The only company that ever
did better was Ford back in 1921, when the redoubtable model T
re »k better than 60 percent of the market.) The net result: G.M,’s
| hirst- -quarter profits this year hit an all time high” of $374 million
—roughly equivalent to the national income of Ireland,

At the Top. It is good PieTeE erent that has done it “Though they
vould rather submit to the thumbscrew than say so publicly, exe-
eutives of rival auto companies: privately concede the superiority
of G.M.’s organization. Says one Detroit titan’ famed for his ag-
‘svessive competition. with G.M.: ‘‘Generat Motors is the best man-
ged organizaton in American industry—or, for that matter, any-
where in the world.’ Says another Big Three executive: “The Gen-

oral Motors system is so well thought out that you could run almost
my: business in any field successfully by using the G.M. Pelee
method and standagds of poe living.”

Even Frederic Donner, a man with an ingrained horror of boast-
| ‘ng or ‘putting on-side,’’ lapses into superlatives when. he talks
f his company. Says he: ‘We lead. the industry in plant, in en-
anéering organization and in dealer organization.” ‘And, like
everyone else, he attributes G.M.’s pre-eminence to “the System”

—a unique blending” of centralized policymaking and decentralized }.

‘xecution in, which the key decisions are always collectve judg-

sents ‘made in committee by some of the best minds in U.S. in-|-

dustry. Says Donner: “Tt isn’t that we just~ lead miraculous)y.
We have built the facilities to take that leadership.”

Never have the G.M. system and the man that heads it- been

better mated than they are today. When Fred Donner, a trim (5 ft.
§ in., 152 Ibs.) and reserved accountant, sucteeded flamboyant
Tiarlow Curtice as chief executive in 1958, many an outsider believ
ed that G.M. had turned the driver’s seat over to a walking calcu-
lator when what the job called for was a sates or production
genius. In the three years since, Donner's’ electronic-quick brain
bas proved to be everything everyone said of it. (Says Donner of
his numbers skill, in characteristic self-depreciation:
“an sketch, but to me it comes easily to use figures, almost like
a language.) In ultimate tribute to G.M.’s collective judgmert,
however, Donner has also shown himself deft with people and a
tirst-class administrator. Says one of G.M.’s outside directors:
“Fred Donner is the epitome of the G.M. spirit of hard work an
‘analysis. He knows where the company is, where it is going, and
how it is going to get there, better than anyone else; |

Corsets & Bugsy Whips. Since his youth in Three Oaks, “Mich.
(pop. in 1900: 990), Donner has always seemed to have an uncom-

reonly sure sense of where he was going. The only child of an 3

accountant for the Warren Featherbone Co. (corset stays and bugs;

whips), young Fred, neighbors recall, ‘‘didn’t care much for ath- |.

leties; he read at least two hours a day. And even as a boy he
had a routine—so. much time for work, so much time for play, so
niuch time for study.” .— :

At the Universtiy of Michigan Donner got straight A’s (save for
one B in history), graduated Phi Beta~ Kappa (723) in economics.
‘He had a great skill in writing and an excellent vocabulary,’

remembers ‘his economics proféssor, Dr. William Paton, now 73.}-

“From mat r assumed he ‘could think clearly.’ ib Accordingly, two

  

“Some people |

 
  

years nee Donner’s ston: when a G.M, official came sib the
cniversity looking for ‘a bright young accountant with an analy-
‘ieal type of mind,’’ Paton recommended his “old pupil. Intrigued
py the fact that the G.M. job involved “dealing with projections
end forecasting rather than what had happened*in the past,” Don
ner resigned his job with a Chicago accounting firm and moved
into the auto industry. z 3
‘Taming the Giant. When Donner arrived at G.M. in 1926, the
company was just recovering from|
William Crapo Durant. A daring Sp¢
Durant started assembling G.M. in i
ogether the Olds Motor Vehicle Co.,
(later Pontiac). Instead of stopping
.p more and more. dissimilar con
coordinating: their management. oa
to the. edge of bankruptey for thé s
ers, led by Pierre S. du Pont, (ou
“ompany. Three years later, directi
ne man who more than anyone: de has shaped the company
—Alfred P. Sloan Jr,, now. 87. As resident and later chairman,
sloan ran General Motors for nearly 30 yedrs. And at the vey
‘oeginning of his regime he establishi{d “the System’’—the manag.
rial philosophy and practices that |

sulator- and master promoter, }
08, within a year had stitched
Cadillac, Buick and Oakland
thc he went right on buying
panies without a thought for
920, when. Durant led G.Ni.
ond time, alarmed stockhold-
ed him from control of the
, of GM. was turned over to

Ave guided the company ‘ever

since. ; ee
Sloan’s seemingly self-contradictor
1. the flexibility and. the initiative th
aggressive companies plus the — eco
‘ ossible only in a big and highly cen!

goal was to achieve for G.
t are characteristi ic of small,
omies and careful planning

‘ ‘alized organization, His sol:u

 

 

|

Pook forthe

Bl E ANGEL @. sie

an the lahel

   

 
   

ay
eee 2, rs omesee

aoa pain ; 5
f ii 5 z
re Ja ( F

   
  
 
 
   
  

Wistitte et mine petetle yar :
Sues, be aut GardetslO% nt e

Portrau prince! "4 is
oe

i

*

      
 
  
       
     
  

 

Served EXCLUSIVELY at Haitis Leading
__, MOTELS & RESTAURANTS « BY CONNOISSEURS |

    
  

 

b boisterous days of Founder

    

 

mn was to divide G.M. into a maze of manufacturing: divisions
hd operating groups; each enjoying semiautonomy in day-to-day

perations and purely internal decisions. Then, to formulate overal!
‘policy, provide central services and balance the competing aspir-
ations of the divisions, Sloan put over them a central staff divorced
from responsibility for day-to-day production. *

The Response Mechanism. To make Sloan’s ‘complex organization
<unction coherently, G.M. has come to depend above all on corn:
mittees and informa] “‘policy groups’’ linking the long arms of the
-orporation, They talk things out face to face rather. than write
uemos. No major corporate decision can be taken without the coit-
currence of committees at division, group and staff level. This acts
3 an automatic check on would-be autocrats. Says a Chrysler exe
cutive: ‘One man or even a clique of men cannot effect drastic
.hanges in the General Motors setup. Basically, the G.M. hierarchy
an be described as a group of hot shots surrounded by reports that
restrain them.”

The G.M. committee system has the sound of bureaucracy but
'; saved from ‘stultification by the drive and competitive urge of
‘e line divisions. The decision to build the compact rear-engine
‘orvair in 1959 took G.M.’s. committees about four months to ao-
rove. But the fact that the Corvair was built at all was due to
-he initiative of. then Chevrolet Division Chief Edward Cole (TIME
jver, Oct. 5, 1959), who on his own time put together plans for
%e car long before he had any authorization at all. ‘‘Let’s face
it,” sighs a rival automaker. “That big G.M. animal has a fan-
tastic response mechanism.” :
_ The response mechanism has not always been infallible. In 1937,
when G.M.'s committees might have been concerned with the
jnounting sales of compacts; they decided instead that the wave
of the future lay in Chrysler's finny “Forward Look’ cars. G.I.
rushed into a crash restyling program, came up with spangled
1959 models that, by G.M. standards, sold poorly. Even’ more sev:
ious were the design troubles of the Buick division i the late
1950s. Sales plummeted; and Buick’s dip was not corrected until
the System’ rushed in to provide Buick with new management and
new engineers. But the System’s tesponse, if belated, was highly
successful. Last year’s Buicks were conceded even by rival auts-
makers to be the best-engineered cars out of Detroit.

Two for Every Opening. Awed by G.M.’s effectiveness, man
another’ U.S. corporation has tried to emulate the Sloan system
—but rarely with comparable success. One reason is that few other
ompanies can match the planning and control system installed

it G.M. by Vice President Donaldson’ Brown just a year before.

Donner was hired. The Brown. system of constant reports —which
permits G.M. to forecast for three nionths in advance every detatl
of its operations from auto production to profit ‘margins— has for
27 years kept G.M.’s profits moving up at a planned pace in re-
lation to sales. (G.M. showed its last loss —$38.7 million— in 192i).
Only one other major U.S. corporation has such a record: Du Pont
—whose planning and control system Donaldson Brown devised
.efore he moved to G.M.

Another vital G.M. legacy from the Sloan era is G.M’ s over-
riding emphasis on a strong, healthily prosperous dealer’ organi-
zation. “Sloan picked his dealers carefully, watched ever their
accounting methods, and saw to it that they were all geographic:
ally spaced to divide the market properly. After the 1955 autc
glut—when the company was accused of, forcing so many cars on
dealers that they-had to dump them at almost’ any price— G.M.,
with prompting from the Senate’s O’Mahoney subcomniittee, fur:

| ther improved its dealer relations. It extended dealer contracts

from one year to five. ‘hired an ex-judge to decide disagreements
between the company and its dealers, and set up elécted deaier

|councils to thresh out problems with company brass. The result is

that today G.M.’s 13,800 U.S. dealerships are prized possessions

Says San Francisco Chevy Dealer Ellis Brooks: “Getting a Chevro-

let franchise is the dream of everybody in the business.’’ .
_ Above all, howeyer, what makes the System work with unpar-

: alleled effectiveness is” its tradition of aggressive informality. This

is possible because almost all G.M.’s top officers have been work-
ing together ‘all their business lives. The company’ s top 500 execut:

y ives ‘fave put in an average of 30 years apiecé with G.M., and it
lis a rare G.M. executive who jumps to another company—partly

because G.M. pays ‘them to stay ‘with salaries that have become]
industrial nalegentl Headed by Donner, who drew total earnings of |

   

 

Halo reveals the ‘hidden

 
    
 

> PAGE 9

 

$957,725 before taxes, eight of the ten highest-paid men in U.S.
industry last year were G.M. officers. Result is that G.M. is able
to keep a reserve bench of executive talent that no other auto
company—and probably no other company in any industry—can
match. Almost offhandedly Donner says: ‘‘We try to keep a man-
power pool which is a bit more than twice as large as the number
of jobs which it will fill.”

_ The Expert. Despite its superabundance of manpower, G.M. puts
scant stock in seniority, has a tradition that anyone whe is going -
to the top begins his rise early. And from ‘the start of his G.M.
career, Fred Donner was clearly a comer. Though he has always
been attached to the financial staff in New York, his ability to
cut through a tangle of conflicting evidence quickly made him a
key man’ in G.M.’s endless process of self-examination, and toulk
him into almost every cranny of the corporation from the dealer
organization to overseas operations. ‘‘Mr. Sloan emphasized two
things,” says Donner. “One —get the facts. Two—recognize the
equities of all concerned.”

The young Donner of the 1950s someiimes annoyed his associates.
“His main difficulty back there,” says a former boss, “was that
se expected everyone to be as smart as he was.’’ But by the time
2e was 39, Donner was already vice president in charge of financial
staffone of the youngest men the System has ever promoted to

(Continued on page 10)

 

 

 

‘Soaping” dulls hair.
‘Halo glorifies it?

    

 
   
     
  
 

Not a soap, not a
cream— Halo cannot
leave dulling, dirt-

catching soap film!

.

  
  
   
 

Gives fragrant
“soft-water” lather
=—needs no special rinse!

 

Oo.
Removes embarrassing

dandruff from both hair

and scalp!

 

Halo leaves hair soft,
manageable—shining with
colorful natural highlights!

Yes, “soaping” (yore hair with
even finest liquid or oily cream
shampoos leayes dulling,

dirt-catching film. Halo, made The largest -

  

with a new ingredient, contains 2
Th 80a a sticky oils. selling
us Halo glorifies your hair
the vo first time you use it. § amp 00
for Halo— America’s ~ in
ee Seema eee: : Amerie a

’

beauty of ihe hairl
-61L1-EL

   
 

PAGE 10

Autos -Produci

(Continued from page 9)

 

such high rank, In 1956 he became chairman of the powerful fin-
ancial policy committee that, in effect, has final say on all G.M.
moves. “I felt this was the last job at G.M, I would have,’ recalls
p Donner. “Tt was a very natural spot for me, and I was happy to

\ have.it.”

Had Harlow Curtice, General Motors’ chief executive from 195.
fo 1958, been a different kind of man, Donner might have stayed
where he was. ‘Red’ Curtice was responsible for some of G.M.’s

~ most brilliant moves (and hardest selling—the record 1955 \year was
his). But he was an autocrat by temperament, offended against
the System by delving deep into the affairs of autonomous divi-

sions, and was even accused of showing favoritism toward the

Buick division he had once headed. When Curtice retired at 65, the
_ System was-happy to turn to one of its own—a man who respected
i ‘its. committees and had no close ties to any one division. The on:

vious choice was Fred Donner.

Divided Rule. Donner signaled the way he would run the corm:
pany by picking as president crack engineer John F. Gordon, 62,
previously vice president in charge of the Body and Assembly
_ roup. Donner and Gordon have never set down on paper any
a ~ formal division of authority, and feel no need to. “I don’t spend the
- hours on styling that he does,” explains Donner. “He does not
at spend the hours of finance and labor relations that I do. In seme
areas like distribution we are both active.’’ In everything they
: work closely. together, spending many evenings together over din-
5 ner in New York or Detroit—where Gordon is based. ‘We see
each other three weeks out of four, ” says Donner, ‘‘and we have
gotten to instinctively recognize anything we ought to talk over
; before, one of us moves in on it alone, or a committee takes action.”’

From the System’s standpoint, the arrangement could not be
better. Exults one G.M. director, Morgan Guaranty ‘rust Chair-

man Henry Clay Alexander: “There’s 7 sense of jealousy, never
a question as to who goes through the door first or who sits at
‘the head of the table. ” In the Detroit board room, in fact, Donnec
and Gordon. sit side by side at the head of the table—with Donner

 

- presiding.

The Little Betters. Even critics of the System acknowledge
: that General Motors is performing at its best under
Donner’s orchestrated leadership. Admits one Big Three executive,
who hotly denies that G.M. has any monopoly on automotive
Drains: ‘‘Year in and year out over the last decade, General Mc-
tors has been a little better than the rest of us in some of the,
major areas—in distribution or product, in management or styling.
7 This happens to be the year when all the ‘little betters’ coincided.”
- A major reason for the coincidence of all the ‘‘little betiers”
this year is that G.M.’s committees simply did not make as riany
wrong decisions as their rivals did. Donner crows a bit over Ford’s
last-minute cancellation of USS. production of the Cardinal after
plowing $11 million into development of the much-rumored “com-
pact compact.’ He implies that G.M.’s insistence on careful eva-
Juation of mountains of fact made clear to him and his colleagues
that there was no great demand for such a car. Says. he: “We
shave not founda way to make—a smal]l, small car large and com-

{

‘fortable—which seems to be what the customer ndw wants.”

CG.M.’s committees, in fact, have never quite believed that the
compact boom of the late ’50s marked the death of the American
_ car buyer's traditional urge to move up to higher-priced cars. For

a time, this skepticism seemed likely to lead G.M. into serious
trouble. In 1959, when Ford’s compact Falcon scored an immediate
suecess while Chevrolet’s rear-engine Corvair was something of
a dud, it appeared that Ford might grab off the lion’s share of
an important new market. Almost by chance, however, Chevrolet
‘ dressed up some Corvairs with pizazz features to ‘attract customers
into showrooms to Jook at the ordinary Corvair. With that began
“the Monza and the “bucket seat boom’’—another example of the
auto buyer’s old urge to upgrade the plain’ and the practical,
: No fess important, G.M.’s continued emphasis on its medium
: priced lines gave it an edge in diversity of product. With their
1962 lines, the other auto EET -gped. to persuade the

 

 

(HAITI SUN??

ying public to settle down to a relatively few standard-sized,

ompact and intermediate models. Gambling heavily on the inter-

nediate Fairlane—which has done well, but partly at the expense
»f Faleon and Galaxie sales—Ford downgraded its medium-priced
Mercury. In similar mood, Chrysler turned the Dodge into a Plym-
juth-priced Dart, and American Motors shortened its Ambassador.
Meantime, to flesh out its own big and standard lines, G.M. showed
hat it was not above borrowing a good idea from a competitor
by introducing the Chevy Il—which is so like the Falcon that
some Detroiters call it ‘Falcon III.” Result was that G.M. ot-
‘ered autodom’s most highly varied line of 1962s, including pizazz
models, more convertibles and more medium-priced cars than any-
cne else to tempt the trading-up buyer.

Positive & Strong. In his drive to make the little betters a little
better each year, Donner drives himself and everyone sround him
hard. He expects full dedication from even the outside men:bers
on G.M.’s board, Says one director: ‘‘Fred always does his home-
work and so do we. He won’t tolerate anybody who doesn't.”
Sometimes a director’s “homework” for the monthly board meet-
1.5 amounts to as much as 7 Ibs. of repurw.

Firm as he is with directors, Donner is most forceful when he
assumes his hat as chairman of the finance committee. “He's
not arbitrary,’’ says a fellow committee member, ‘but he is pasi-
tive and strong. He can be reversed, but you have to have jamn
zood reason for reversing him.’ At finance committee meetings,
there is no small talk—just ‘important gossip about such things
Periodically, to support a thesis
or answer a question, Donner whips out of his inside jacket pochet
a handy little argument settler. Most auto executives have modest
ones, but Donner’s comes in a specially made 2-in.-thick leather
case. It is jammed with scores of photostatted cards about the
size of a playing.card, containing in miniature all the latest vital
statistics on G.M. and the auto industry, as well as basic figzuces
about the gross national product and foreign trade. (A wine fancier,
Donner also has in-his pocket file a card listing the vintage years.)

Pro-Yankee. Roughly 60 percent of the time, Donner operates
‘rom behind a paper-free walnut desk in his 24th-fioor Manhattan
ffice overlooking Central Park. The rest of his time he spends
in Detroit, commuting in one of the company’s fleet of twin-engin-
:d Convairs equipped with G.M.’s Allison turboprop engines. ‘‘He
ikes to travel before or after working hours,’ says an aide, ‘‘so
‘hat he won’t miss any time in the office.”

In Detreit Donner sleeps in one of the company’s eigh! execit-
ive bedrooms at its 15-story headquarters building. He is up at

as the economic atmosphere.”

(Continued on page 11)
POPP PPFPPGPPFPFSPPFPVPBVS
s 5

USE

 

FOR

Ee BETTER TASTE
BETTER TEXTURE

OOCCCOS g

tries,

DPI DDPDPPPIPPPPPRG

NEW “AMAZING
FESTIVAL
Flour

' BETTER CAKES WITH |

CLOG, a6 CROCCO OTIS.

SUNDAY JULY ist, 1962

 

—
_
——

For Sale

CONTENTS OF
AMERICAN HOME

Contents of American Home

. Antiques, Reproduction, Works
of Art, Italian & Persian Tapes-
18th Century | Academic
‘Paintings, “The Cries of Lond-
on” in Mezzotint, Etchings by
Yamous Artists, Old Japanese
?rints, Chinese Lacquer Kumyan
Panel, 18th Century Colored En-
glish Prints, Haitian Colonial
Day-Bed, Old Haitian Console
Table, Fine Linens Some Un-
mised, Silverware, Electrical. Kit-
chen Appliances, and Other
Household Items.

4 Door Edsel Automobile, Run
_9000 Miles.
May be seen daily between 2
3 nd 6 P.M.

Maison Greger,
ese Embassy, at Musseau.

e

 

'CACIQUE ISLAND
“IBO. BEACH”
ONLY 30 MINUTES
FROM PORT-AU-PRINCE
ENTRY (INCLUDING
_ROUND-TRIP
BOAT
TRANSPORTATION) |
ONLY $1.00
Guildveat = tosoauts
Private Dressing Rooms

White Sand Beach

 

 

behind Chin- ,

  

4
SUNDAY JULY ist, 1962

 

Autos-Product|.

(Continued from page 10)

7:30, breakfasts in the executive committee ‘dining room,
6 a.m. is ready to do business with G.M.’s early-arriving cxecut-
ives. Evenings, he sometimes leads a group of the to) brass: to
2 Detroit Tigers night baseball game. “i'm very eareful to be pro-
Yankee when I’m in Detroit,”’ he notes with a grin. ~-

and by

The Commuter. All through his career, Donner has insisted on
the privacy of his family life. In Who’s Who. he lists- neither his
wife, his children nor his clubs. Three years after he joined G.M..
he married Grand ‘Rapids-born. Eileen -Isaacon, whom he begin
to court when she came to-Three Oaks to ‘teach high school.’ Win

” ters, they live in a Fifth Avenue apartment. (Their son and daught-
er are both married.) Summers, they live in a big (22 rooms),
comfortable home in Sands Pont, Long Island. Donner com:nutes
to the city on the Long Island Rail Road, and from Pernsylvania
Station to his office, 25 blocks away, US, industry’s highest-paid }/

..businessman joins rush- hour straphangers on the subway. nee
Though he plays an occasional game of golf, Donner's prime re

creation is still reading—mostly history, which he feels helps “him

“fo learn how mistakes have beeir made in the past. And suc-

cesses.”’ No recreation, however, can really compete for his atten- |

tidn. against the activity he. loves best: running G.M. For desy nite
- his quiet, intellectual exterior, Donner ‘delidhts in’ the inpredict:
ability and endlessly changing nature of his business, “We're a
very restless crowd in the auto industry,” he says ~proudt,7. “We're |:
always under strain. This business wouldn’t be any fim if we
weren't under strain. It would be like selling soap or maiches.”

Trustbusters’ Target. The manufacturing and the selling of cars|

are only part of the strain. Because G.M. has made itself so big, |,
it must live in constant dread of the Justice Department's  trust-
busters. Since last summer, the Antitrust Division has assigned a
special team. of eight ‘attorneys to keep watch on the giant auto-
maker. The Government already has four antitrust cases against
G. M. in pretrial stages: 1) a criminal indictment charging that
the: company has monopolized the diesel electric locomotive 1:ark-
et by unfair use of its power as the railroads’ largest freight cut-
omer; 2) a suit alleging that G.M. monopolizes | 85 percent of city
and intercity bus sales; 3). an effort to nullify G.M.’s acquisition
of Ohio’s Euclid Road Machinery Co.; and 4) a suit charging that
G.M. and three Southern California ‘auto dealer groups conspired
to prevent the sale of Chevrolets through discount houses.

For several. years past, there have been persistent rumors tna
‘the Justice Department would like to go. even further and cat G

down to size by breaking off Chevrolet as an independent Corpor.

ation. (Rival Automaker George Rommey has. long urged that
G.M. be split up). Now that G.M. dominates more gs half the

2

9OSS0 44999444992 YYTOG

    

LA ESSO STANDARD OIL S. A.
LIMITED Gee

VOUS OFFRE

UNE. PROTECTION EXTRA
UNE ECONOMIE EXTRA
AVEC ESSO EXTRA

MOTOR OIL PREMIUM
DANS LE FERBLANC DORE

 

q, ‘the product is attractive. Motor vehicle sales indicate to vs that

 

‘fHALTY SUN?

 

‘.o industry, the rumors come in louder and stronger. ‘‘Domin-
,’ observes Donner dryly, “‘is a word like discriminate. It was
ae nice word until a few years ago.” :

Donner denies vehemently that G.M. “has ever worked ageres-
sively to stifle competition.’ » But he insists with equal fervor that
Seneral Motors does not —and cannot— attempt to hold down its
-uto sales for fear of antitrust action. No institution, he argues,
san sensibly set out to be second best, or to do. less than its best.

=o jong as General Motors contnues to grow on the strength of

‘orice competition and product Be ae ee he believes ee both

law and equity are on its side. —

Always a G.M. Another threat from Washington that currently

worries Donner is the Kennedy Administration's proposal (already

assed by . the: House) ‘to tax the income -U.S. companies - earn
abroad at the time that it is earned. rather than whea it is brought

oack to the U.S. Under the present law, US. companies are per-

mitted to keep an unlimited amount of their foreign earnings
‘broad free of tax, to expand their overseas facilities. General
Motors has used this provision to good advantage to build up the

strength of its foreign subsidiaries. Of the cars that G.M. produces 5

overseas, Opel now ranks second to Volkswagen in Germany,
Vauxhall is fourth in Britain, and in Australia the Holden,
»est G.M. tradition, holds nearly half the market.

The U.S. Treasury, argues Donner, is by far the rignen for aif
this. Since World, War If, GM. has brought into the U.S. through
dividends from. its subsidiaries and exports” from ‘its U.S. plants

: staggering $5 billion in foreign earnings. Of this, aimost 25 per-

vent came during the past three years to’ help out when the gold
overflow became: critical. (One reason why Detroit raisés little out-
ury against foreign car sales in the U.S.: last year the U.S. spent
$400 million on foreign cars, but exported autos and :uto re

worth three times as much—$1.2 billion.) :

Donner expects the rest of the world. to” ‘buy more thaa 10 million
cars and trucks by 1970—equal to what the. U.S. car laarket is
Peto SY to be by then, ‘The WS: automobile industry,” he says;

“can make its contribution in these expanding markets overseas
only if investments continue to be made abroad. If direct overseas
investments by U.S. busness are discouraged by unwise tax policy,
our eee will lose an important and rising long-term source
of income.’

Other Donner concerns of the ‘moment:

THIS YEAR'S ECONOMY. “The auto industry swings with the
cycle, but moves beyond it. It can give impetus to the cycie on
the upswing when we have an attractive product, but it cannot
provide’ much upward pressure during a downswing Just because

in the

consumer confidence is now at a high level. For these reasons,
{ am Gui eteStG concerning the business outlook for the re-
mainder of the year.”

GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN PRICE SETTING, “Prices
£ comparable General Motors cars have remained unchanged
ince the 1959 models were introduced, For the automobile industry,
he most persistent force influencing prices has been ihe discipline
of competition in the market. I see no~reason to pvelieve that it
$ either wise or desirable for Government to attempt 10 influence
che ‘results through direct intervention in the economy

GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN WAGE NEGOTIATIONS.
‘I ag a great believer that the best agreements are those which
wwe reached between us and the unions. So far as I know, General

.} Motors has not been influenced by Government actions, either stated
® | or implied, which have limited its freedom to compete effectively

1 the markets for its products or to carry out free coilective bar-
zaining with the union representing its employees. The maint-
enance of this ‘freedom is the most important single ingredient
a sustaining a dynamic, growing and stable economy.’

Despite all the crosscurrents presently pulling at U.S. busiziess,

red Donner looks ahead without fundamental appreiension- and

vith a profound. faith in the ability of the G.M. system to ope. It
; clearly almost inconceivable to him that General Motors will
ot go on indefinitely getting a little bigger and a little better than

 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

{ce charge, per, person or
| couple, is only 50 cents. The Jat.

 
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
  

PAGE jt ~

New Military Attache
(Continued from page Danks

at his 510 feet Plymouth Rock, Sie
. landing Ship, was not easily —
handled. On May 18 upon leave %
ing the Port au Prince dock the
Plymouth Rock had to pass out-
board of a passenger vessel, the »
SS Santa Paula, berttied ahead, x
and. cleared a dangerous shoal |
‘3 close manoeuver’’. Pilot. Dan:
din did the job according to Capt.
Barry, ‘‘with 2 minimum of»
power, in a conservative mann:
er, and at all time was in -eom-
plete control of the. situation”

NEW ATTACHE —

Major Warren is..a -graduate
i the U.S. Army Command _ and | :
Staff college. He was acco: npan-
-ed to Haiti by his wife and twa
young sons. ) eee

Tle. replaces sympathetic Col-
onel Dollard who ended. three soe
years here this weekend to take
up an army. teaching post ins
Chicago.

Colonel and Mrs Dollard: aha A
depart for Washington aboard
toe Grace Liner ‘today have made .
many enduring friendships dur- :
ing their tour in Haiti. HOS)

Ambassador and Mrs Thurston
entertained the Dollards at a re-
ell. party: from 7 to 9 at the ©
‘Embassy residence Tue ee
night.
soolne Dollard a ‘Parachutist oi

+a member of the United States
Army.

  

 

 

 

Fe

 

  

‘Congo Restaurant...

(Continued from page 1) :
from 1:30 to 6 p.m. with another —
—Sico and Lejeune. The entran-.
per

 

ter session will he called the
Cocktail Dance. You may swim
in the pool between times.
“Food promises to be good and
inexpensive, with Griots at a
mere 30 cents, hamburgers for
40 cents, etc. The restaurant will
he open daily with specialties at —
about $1.25, including filet.

This should prove to be a* po-
pular new restaurant and_nite-
club, The Congo, under Mr.
Saieh’s able hand. Roger seems
to be able to turn his hand to —
almost anything — singer, art-—
ist", architect, restauteur ‘and
heaven knows what else. Such _
enterprise deserves praise and |
suprort, Eureka, Congo and Ro-
ger Saieh.

ui

 

Judo Outlawed

(Continued from page 1)
Judo, so conceived, far frem
being a sane method af physical
and moral education or a tech-
nique of self-defence taught and
applied in all civilised Conters7
is thus deviated from its prim-
ary aims and is rather prejudi-
cial to the security of citizens

and to public order. i See
Consequenfly, in ord¢r 10 re-
strain these aggressive instincts

“

my other manufacturing enterprise in the world. ‘If I can leave dangerous for social order, the

‘Seneral Motors well staffed with good men in the top jobs and Division of Social Defence orders
ood men coming up under them, and with a cohesion in our ‘for- the closing of all centers where

vard planning so that the bits and pieces.fall into their logical | fis Kind of exercise is taught

ylaces,”’ says Donner, ‘‘then I will feel I have done my job here.” ne yous, ae ieee | forint
; the judokas to practice it, where-

ever they are, in the interest of.

(Reproduced by permission from “TIME” — May 18, 1962). public peace.
PAGE 12 a

 

TRADUCTIONS DE EMILE ROUMER

DE POESIES EN CREOLE

¥

, ANTONIO MACHADO
7 _ THRENE

En silence et sans |’ pas garder m’
lan mort oun l’autre fois te passe

devant m’: —Min ca ou sote fe comm ca?
; *Lan mort pas reponde oun seul mot.
Pitite m’ rin li rete. tranquille

et coeur m’ a la coeur m’ fe m’ rin mal.

Aie, ca lan mort te vine casser

min ce te oun fil entre le deux. —

SHAKESPEARE.

SONNET 98

M’te trouve m’ absent cote ou lan printemps
quand richement tachete Avril, vetu ac toute l’or I’
mete oun l’esprit jeunesse, lan chaque objet,

que pesant Saturne t’ap ri et danse ac li!

Min ni romance z’oiseaux ni douce fragrance
different leurs lan arome com Jan nuance
n'importé qui conte d’ete te cab fe m’ di

ou a blond giron prend yo cote yap grandi
ni m’ pas t’emerveille pour blancheur lys

ni loue vermillon fonce qu’lan oun rose.

Ce douce yo te douce min images delices”

qui faite d’apre ou puisque ou ce modele toute.
Min |’ semble hiver encore, et, vu que ou loin
Ce com ac l’ombrage ou que m’ tap joue ac yo.

E IE PRINCE D'APRE LA BIBLE
PSAUME 101

 

j

M’ vle chanter bonte ac justice
Yawheh m’ vie celebrer ou
- puisque m’ pral suive oun voie qu’ parfait
qui Vheure oua vine cote m’?
M’ pral condui m’ ac coeur integre :
‘Ian beau mitan palais m’. : ‘
MW’ pas p’ permette ges m’ yo pose
sou angnin meme qui mauve
M’ r’hai ouache zott qu’ap vende la justice:
conduite yo pas pour m’rin.
De corruption coeur m’a garde m’
" m’ pas vie, conne le mal,
Cag denonce moune en secret
ce yo m’a extermine,
_ N’homme a ge cheche, coeur arrogant
m’ pas p’ cab supporter 1’.
M’a suive ac ges m’ fideles pays a
pour yo rete bord cote m’,
Moune. qui marche lan voie qu’ parfait
ce li qu’va serviteur m’.
En d’dans palais m’ pas p’ habite
caq agit ac fourberie,
_Zott qu’ap menti pas p’ subsiste
devant deux graines ges m’rin.
Tout le matins m’a extermine oh
toute mechants (lan pays a
Pour lan cite Yahweh m’ ouete
fauteurs iniquites.

 

 

ATTENTION! <YOU.;:
G8 Who Love Your Pets
NOW AVAILABLE

Fresh Rabies Vaccine
Flea-Go-Powder & Liquid Soap
(fleas, ticks and lice)
Other Veterinary Supplies
CLAUDE MARTIN

20 Rue Bonne Foi

 

/

i

SACL TALS

Munro ti i Joseph report

(Continued from page 1y

vreath at the Memorial of the
Yeroes of Independence.

Since leaving Haiti in 1932 Dr.
Munro has been a Professor of
‘Latin American History at [ rin-
zeton University. In addition he
vas Director of that Institution’s
renown Woodrow Wilsoa Schoo!
af Public and Internatiois! Af-
fairs aad us currently a me‘nb-
¢ ef the Council on Foreizu Re-
ations °

He was in charge of the Brook-
ing’s Dominican Survey in 1922,
\ survey which led to some fun-

_lamental developnients.

Dr. Munro is the author of se-
veral books, including “Five Re-
yublics of Central America’,
‘The United States and the Car-
ibbean Area” and “The Latin
\merican Republics: A History ”’

His diplomatic 2areer included
‘ssigninents as ecenomie consu!

it Vatparaiso, Chile, 1920-21: 1st!

cretary of Legation at Pana-
ma, 1925-27 and Managua, Nica-
ragua,. 1925-27 hefere coming to
Taiti in 1930 as Envoy Extraor-
dinary. Dr. Munro also served
1s Chief of the Division of Latin
American Affairs in the U.S. De-
partment of State from 1929-30.
Dr. Munro was born vt Previ-
dence, Rhode {sland July 18,
1892, the son of Dana Carleton
and Alice Gardner. He atterdod
‘rown University 3908-1911, re-
ceived his Bachelor of Arts from
University of Wisconsin’ t!1-
following year. He did pos!-cra-
duate work at Murica in 1913
and obtained his Ph. D. from the
University of - Penns syivaniit in
1917, That same year hte joined].

l the U.S. Army Air Service and

WaS commissioned as a 2nd Lt.
ana pilot in Detober 1912.

Coy ST
Jamaican Visiting
“Miss Madge Liola Menyo!
‘lew “down here from Kingston
Friday to spend a two noxth va-
cations with her former Haitian
classmate and friend, Miss Ro-

 

semary Bouchereau.

 

BSS PS PS PA PSPS Pied BO SPI BI PS OS PS Pe Pe FS

‘Port. au Prince and play during July 9th to 13th

‘| ment on June 21st...

HAITIAN MAHOGANY CRAFTS STRAIG&®
FROM OUR OWN FACTORY

LIBERTY OF LONDON FABRICS — FRENCH PEREUMS |
LIQUORS — JEWELRY — WATCHES

CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED
FREE PORT PRICES

UDSCORDOBLBGDUKFVE ETRE

UN’?

 

The pupils of the College Bird,

SUNDAY JULY 1st, 1962.

|

  

 

accompanied by their director, —

payed a visit to the Musee d’Ethnologie Tuesday at. 8:00 a.m....

Mr. Isnard Mathieu, one of the first group of Haitian teachers
engaged by UNESCO for Congo, is dead. The remains of the de-
turct wil be transported to Port au Prince for the funeral... From
June 12 to 13, the Centrale Dessalines of Cayes furnished 774 bags
ci Sugar, putting the production to date at 90,839 bags... Melle
sreta Meyer, daughter of the well-known pharmacist Leonard Mey-
er and Mrs former Eva Mainvieille and Mr. Jermak Roude, arch-
itectural Engineer, son of Mr and Mrs Nicolas Roude, were married
Saturday June 23rd at Sacre-Coeur Church at 6:30 p.m... We offer
wishes for swift recovery to Mrs Fernande Brierre, mother of our

friend Poet Jean Brierre, vno just supported a delicate surgical] in-

‘ervention... Mir. Raymond Moyse, ancient Secretary of State for
Toreign Affairs left for the USA and Germany on special mission,
on June 16th... Chantal is the name of the new baby-girl of Mr.
Roger (Tstine) Qualo and Mrs., former Madeleine Magloire...
fiielle Nicole Gardere, daughter of Mr and Mrs Emile Gardere,
who just graduate from the Horticulture Section of the University of
The fun-

erals of Engineer Charles Martin deceased in his residence at Tur-

California, return from Davis (California) last Sunday...

geau, took place Monday at Sacre-Coeur Church, at 4:000 p.m. Our ©

simcere condolence to his bereaved family... Our colleague “COUR-
RIER DU SUD” feted its first anniversary Friday June 22...
Emmanuel Monpoint, Michel Ange Voltaire, Serge Garoute and
Bertin Dadaifle flew to San Juan (Puerto Rico) by PAA431 on spe-

cial mission... Mr Earl Finnie, director of USOM in Haiti, left to

MM. |

sh cata A SiES ay

by

|
}

USA by Pan Air 432 Monday June 18th... Little Rony Boulin, Son =*

ot Mr Maurice Boulin of the daily newspaper ‘‘Le Matin’ feted his
birthday June 21st...
in itaiti will receive on July 2nd on 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.

Mr. Jennings Charge d’Affaires a.i. of Canada
in
tne Embassy, on the occasion of the National Fete of Canada...

An orchestra of the American Air Force will arrive in
cadre of the centennial] of Hatiano-American diplomatic relations....
The Fathers of “Instruction Chretienne” feted the Corpus Christi
and St. Louis de Gonzague-fete, the Patron-saint of the establish-
Sunday June 24th the localities of Gressier,
Miragoane, Trou du Nord and Jean-Rabel feted their Patron-saint:

St. Jean-Baptiste...

 

Caribbean Construction Co. S:A.
Builders Of The Military Citv
Gen. Manager: Gerard THEARD
Phone: 3955. P. O. BO . 284

 

CORN ER SHOP

RUE BONNE FOL

4

OILED GS

 

in the |

sg
Oe OF eg aes ADSL lA AES VA A ASIP +

FISHERS: 3}
  

   
  

SUNDAY JULY Ist, 196200

ee aes —

 

    
  
 

   

‘

a ; @
or Nice | dX

Barcelona ®

   

 
 
   
  

  

Lisbon

  
   

Deere ae re TaG ReLRa Pe ehalar

   

   

2

Fly Non-stop -

   

 

 

Daily Clippers from Port-au-Prince to Puerto Rico! And twice

é ' a week you can connect with Pan Am’s new non-stop Jets to
Europe. .-.south-of-the-weather all the way! :
Beginning July 7, Pan American Jets whisk you to fabulous é
Portugal any Tuesday or Saturday at nine in the evening. : onaet
Enjoy dinner on board...then a short nap. In just 634 hours %,
—~ you're there! The morning sun Tmnates gilded castles GATEWAY TO A CONTINENT :
and golden spires in the gem-clear air, * oes Four mornings each week, Pan Am Jets continue
Plebeian prices for such regal riches, too. A lavish luncheon, oP » epa Henny eed ae ae eee? ae i

. ‘ Z es ing in Lisbon on the weekend Clipper® can con- ‘ee
accompanied by sparkling wine, costs less than the wine alone nect. immediately. Other Jets link Portugal with. :
in most countries. Visit Pan Am or a Travel Agent. to see how all‘major countries of Western Europe. But stay
long a trayeller’s check can stretch — how opulent a Portu- _awhile. You'll soon discover the rewards of the ef
guese holiday can be. Continent’s last “undiscovered” tourist attraction. =~
5 16487-PAP Me: > %

 

Enjoy the Priceless Extra of Experience ou Cs
on the World's Most Experienced Airline

4 7
‘ PLACE DE LA REPUBLIQUE ARGENTINE, CITE DE L'EXPOSITION - 4
; : PORT-AU-PRINCE, TEL: 3451

   
PAGE 14 tH ATTI SUN”’”

SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962

 

Off the Telediol| AGE OF HAPPY PROBLEMS”

—For the first time the other day I saw the little ‘“‘lift’’ in the
Georges Leger law offices building. Didn’t get a chance to ride
m it — it holds one person and was occupied. —I’d like to have
-.one of those new Rhum Barbancourt cigaret lighters as a souve-
pir. The case is a replica of the Barbancourt label. —Those com-
‘muter tickets for the Petionville-Kenscoff road are on sale at Nob-
be-Bondel’s — upstairs. Odd, that. —The top kick U.S. Marines
‘ inspector from Lima, Peru, dropped into town this week, as dd
: ‘je Embassy attaches from Caracas. Saw ’em all at Dan’s — where
alee? —It is with infinife pain that we announce the death of ‘But-
chie’”, Dan Allen's old dog. RIP. —Tom Dell is bucking so hard
for honeymooners, he should announce that El Rancho is ‘‘heir con-
se ditioned’’ —Notes from the South: a friend just completed a round
S trip visit to Jeremie by boat. Believe it or not, the boats have
small Jail rooms for stowaways and other offenders. On the’ re-
i ‘turn trip ‘two girls ard a man were caught for non-payment of
- fares. They tied the girls skirts together and tied the man’s shirt-
tail to both — and in the jug. —The cake they make in Jeremie,
: which used to be called ‘‘comparette’’ is now generally referred
to as “compas direct’’. Tastes like lebkuchen! They drink a rum
: made there, 3 star, called Rhum Vieux — Le Terroir... and be-
eve me, it is. The main business in Jeremie would seem to be
| “the lottery. There are two, based on the Dominican Republic and
the Cuban lottery figures, and everyone owns a thing called the
Chala — a book which tells you what number your last night’s
dream indicates to play. Unless you can afford to take the plane,
you can leave Jeremie just once a week, by boat, leaving at6:0)
p.m. and arriving about 10 the next morning in Port au Prince.
* ‘The town has three rigs for making electric power, but only on>
is: working and they have current about once a day — usually whe 1
need it least. Ice, and hence ice water, is a rare treat. —The Andy
_ Andersons are anticipating. —Love the new-old Rural Code just
cut in “Le Moniteur’’. One article specifies that a bull over 5 years
old cannot serve more than once a day and must be given one
day off each week... Wowie! What does he do on his day
—Well, vacations have begun in earnest. Even the doctors
ave knocking off for much needed rests. Drs Denize and Beaulieu
q “will be in their offices only two hours each morning; they:ll be],
at home in case of emergencies. — of which I hope there are none...
and so it goes around town... and I’d better start thinking about
what I want to do. Any suggestions? Don’t answer that question.
_—Somebody gave me a parrot which I named Jacmel (because
that’s where he came from). He’s begun to say his name, but it
‘comes out more like ‘Blackmail’? to my ears, and now that I
think of it, that would have been a very good name for him. And
if you haven’t yet named your puppy, Dick Fleet... or maybe you'd
like “Baca”, or “‘Tonneur’’. Just trying to be helpful. —I hear
that no-longer-so-little vagabond, Vingt-cing, has been released from
the hooségow. More’s the pity.. What He needs is a permanent
heuse of correction and some education. Walloping ‘doesn’t teach
him anything but a yen for revenge which he takes out on the
innocent bystander (of which I was one several times). —Another
pet in my menagerie, Mogli ‘the Boxer, has a new pastime. He
es crabbing along the water’s edge every morning. Wait until
By the way, Pierre Chauvet, better bring your youngster out
some afternoon around 5 and let him catch a few. All he needs is
a string and a hunk of meat. I’ll provide the basket! —I had an
invitation to the party yesterday at Kyone, but it didn’t arrive ’til
Friday morning, and that was too late — even to R.S.V.P. Sorry
I missed it, too, as I’m sure it was a good one, and I hear they’ve
done wonderful things out there. Good Luck! KAY MAJOR

(Continued from page 5) .

he scrupulously took a hatchet to
the totems of tourism.

His article on Greenwich Vill-
3e —forever panting and _in-
creasingly Jung— is an outstand-

g clinical report. The tide of
letters there may be ebbing. I!
will swell again, though the in-
iabitants seem to have changed
»mewhat since the great Vi'l-
age days the Gelbs sketched in
their definitive biography of Eu-
‘gene O’Neill.

Well, says Mr. Gold, adapting
the famous line about Punch’s
humor, Greenwich Village is no
longer as it was and never has
been.” The Village can’t be ign-
ored. But it always rises buzzing-
ly to the bait of being deplored.

   

If you want to know the df:
ferences and similarities that

 

  
  

   
 

 

 

 

 
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
   
   
  
 

 

 

  
    
   
  

Chatelet des Fleurs)
 . GARDEN PRODUCTS

Are Available Exclusively At
AU LINCOLN GROCERIES
and RIGAUD GROCERIES |
High Class Iceburg-Lettuce
Strawberries, Broccoli, Water-Cress
With Unsurpassed Standards of Food-Purity

t

 

er Seashore eceey ot

 

age-paid trips to Haiti or Paris|

   

Arms of Caterpillar Too! Bar swing forward or to the rear
for mounting a variety of tools on D6 and D4 Tractors.

earthmoving, land clearing.

|
|
|
|
Tool Bar Bulldozer does full-scale |
|
|
|
|

 

Loader utilizes draft arms of Tool Bar on D4, |

‘Iv. Gold, as a social scientist,
as identfied among the tribes
{ the Hip, the Cool, the Beat,
> Frantic, the Square and so
on, attend the lectures in ‘‘The
‘ge of Happy Problems.”

At a time when many univer-
‘s are said to be looking fo,
vy chairs of learning they may

upholster with foundation grants,
Mr. Gold would seem an excel-
Jent choice as a professor in
this swelling branch:of anthro-
pology.

Much Held ‘Meaningful’

Indeed, Mr. Gold finds so many
fhings “‘meaningful’—a word he
favors inordinately—that he cai
all voids*of nothingness in many
departments of modern life. His
eclecticism ranges.from a’ discri-
minating appreciation of Sher-
wood Anderson’s.— mechanized

folkware to a conversation-stop-

Catarpillar and Cat are Registered Trademarks of Catarpillar Tractor Ca.

HIAYTIAN TRACTOR & EQUIPMENT Co. S. A.
MAURICE BONNEFIL — Manager, Chancerelles _ aN

(2

'-rammatic armature,

 

“ng sequence that begins:

“Tf we accept the reality of
chinese power, we will begin to
‘rade with China. If we .trade
“th China, San Francisco will
‘val New. York as a great port

d center of cultural radiation.’’

It takes all kinds of radiation

reats to make a world obsess-

d with the stuff, doesn’t it? If
we had not won our war our war
‘th Mexico in 1846-48, we might
‘ot be, in California, facing the
cultural fall-out of Mr. Gold’s
syllogistic phophecy. The victor,
Ss F. Scott Fitzgerald said, b>-
ngs to the spoils. {

One of Mr. Gold’s gloomier
‘ubrics is that “Every marriage
a potential divorce.” Using its
you can
“en say that ‘Every birth is
> potential death,” ‘Every wind-
shield is a potential parking-tick-
frame,’’ “Every peace treaty
a potential prelude to future
ar,’’ and so on.
But not every book is a potent-
’ bore. And certainly not ‘The
‘e of Happy Problems.”

|

 

ALL-AROUND VERSATILITY

with

CAT TOOL BARS -

With a Caterpillar Tool Bar, one sturdy
pair of draft arms does the job:

1. Carries wide range of implements
mounted on choice of beams.

2. Swings to rear, or forward for dozer
blade, rake, etc.

3. Lifts and lowers the tools instantly.

4. Permits accurate adjustment for angle
and depth of tool penetration.

5. Transmits traction direct from track
roller frames.

‘fool Bar Rake clears, piles brush and debris,

\

 

i
 

 

SUNDAY JULY ist, 1962

 

Puzrism And Prescriptivism As
Applied To The Carribbean Creole

(Continued from Last Edition)
It is well known that English
enjoys, or suffers, the position of

highest prestige among the lan-

guages of the area: There is a
terrible . amount of linguistic
snobbery attached to English,
and some of it extends even into.

inter-island attitudes. Karl Reis-

man’s tapes from Antigua cont-
ain an extremely interesting and

entertaining discourse by.a

young Antiguan who insisted that
his language was very bad, but
not nearly so-bad as that of Ja-
maicans! In Jamaica itself, an
American can be snubbed for
lack of an ‘‘Oxford’’ accent; and,
according to Alleyne, such snob-
bery is super-imposed upon the
already complex English-French

- Creole situation in St. Lucia. A

 

- Creole;

well-educated young man on An-
tigua, a graduate of Harvard,
seems, fide Reisman, to have
lost his ability to understand the
his family is probabty
the most cultured family on the
island, so that this is probably
not snobbery but a genuine idio-
lect change.

Presemptivism and ner in

places like Jamaica and Antigua

appear to be Infernal. Neverthe-
tess, it coud hardly be denied

ODETTE

 

    
  
 

‘

that biltingualism exists — at
‘east on Jamaica. These two
tatements, placed in juxtaposi-
tion, clash auite violentiy. It was
intended that they should. No
thing now published on the lan-
guage of Jamaica is nearly ade-
suate to resolve the paradox.

If the exact -classification o°
prescriptivism is:a touchy mat-

} = .
ier. for these places, where the;on language with

TELA TEE SUN

 

he former especially deep prob-
ing is necessary to reach the
- ad Creole, A xecent ariicle
flippantly dismisses Puerto Ric-
an ianguage as “not Svanish’’

d suggests, with equal flippan-
cy it would seem, ‘call. it Bor-
cuan.”’ A similar attitude has

'been expressed by a well-known

Scuth American popular write:
strong  pre-

populace doesn’t want to be con-; £criptivist tendencies, Humberio

sidered bilingual,
even touchier'
where almost everyone wants to
be considered bilingual:— in En-
glish and Spanish. Prescripliv-
ism for Spanish, presumably o°
on Internal type, meets the eye
eve rywhere at the University of
Puerto Rico, where: signs in
every passageway conimand:
Distinguase! Hable buen espa-
nol.* Sylvia Viera Jetfrey’s art-
icle in an early issu2 of this’ bul-
lelin made pointed reference to
‘Jos factores determinantes del
veredicto usual de que en Puerto
Rico se habla mal espanol.” One
might, with extreme caution for
resentment is easily aroused
bere, point out that the “vere-
dicto usual” is about the same
for ike popular English of Anti-
sua and of Jamaica, and that in

 

WIEN ER.

Presents
TROUPE DE DANSE BACOULOU D’HAITI -

Every Wednesday N ight

‘oans granted the Haitiau

PETIONVILLE — HAITI

 

 

a ae

FEATURING HATTI’S MOST HXULTING
GROUP OF ENTERTAINERS

BACOULOU CABARET THEATRE

(free Meringue Lessons at 9:30 p.m.)

‘Board of

it is perhaps ; Toscano:
in Puerto Rico, ]

este acento portorriqueno
puede haberse producido co-
mo resultado de ta mexcla de
modos de hablar de los espa-
noles de distintas provincias
que sé establecieron en Puer-
to Rice, pero mas_ probabla-
mento debe tener por base la
cadencia prosodica que ta po-
blacion borinquena usaba en su
lenguaje indigena y sigue. usau-

do en espanol. .
Purists rush in where ‘scholars
‘ear to tread! But the finger of
he prescriptivist has been point-
ea at Puerto Rican Spanish, and
there are serious reseaiches who
suspect real fire beneath tie
phony smcke of the language
ir.provers.

In whavever ways the Spanish
ot Puerto Rico may be unlike
the popular language of the sther
islands, it is

 

COMMUNIQUE

The Secretary of State of Co-
ordination. and Information — in-
ferms that the
“ommerce and Industry, in char-
‘e of the general control of all
yehicles of the State according
to the law, is for the future, ap-

aed by His Excellency the

~sident of the Republic as the
“ay State Organism invested
“ith authority and responsibility
‘o take all the necessary precau-
tions so that the vehicles, mater-
jal and equipment of all categor-
63 which have been bought or
wit be bought with funds from
1OV-
ernment by any Loan Agency. of
the U.S. Government or by any
International Financing Istitu-
‘ion, pe placed under the central-
ized administrative authority of
the said Department.

Besides, the Secretary of State
f Commerce © and Industry as
Representative of the Haifian
Government to the Mixed
Technical and Econo-
mic Aid is the sole qualified to

   
  

similar in the so-

Department of

 

 

5°35

cial situation:
with another language of greater
economic significance in the New
World end perhaps of greater
prestige in the Caribbean 27r2a.
There is, of course, no sugges-
tion intended here that presciip-
on in any way causes the lin-
guistie or socio-linguistie situa-
tions wiich exist. If has long
heen fashionable, and with’ good
reason, to ridicule Miss Fid-
ditch’s claim that she creates
‘er students’ language. The atti-
tudes of her polyglot <zousins in
“e Caribbean are not much
more accurate. Yet even D. L.
Bolinger, whose disruptive effec
upon other phases of -Jinguistic
fashion has hecome very wel!

   
  

:

Tt must coexist*known in a very short time, has

suggested a more tolerant atti-

de toward the role of prescrip-
tivism in language change tnat :
has been usual among modern
linguists. The attitude adopted
here is that purist attitudes pyo-
bably have a trivial effect upo.
ctual language change, in the,
Caritbean as well as anywhere
else, but that the opinions . of
those who "speak the language
coneerned are of primary impor-
tance. Perhaps the prescriptin
ists, in their naive way, ave re~
‘resentative enough to make
then: of use in the process of in
orpreting the direction of ‘thos
opinions.

  

 

  
 

 

 

 

THE END.

 

e

Time takes ona rosy hue
through the sapphire crystal

Its hardness is surpassed
You will cherish your
Movado which offers you

Swiss Observatory at
Neuchatel).

insure the execution of thesc) SS

dispositions which also concern
the vehicles, material and equip-
ment used in the different min
isterial departments and other
organisms interested in the joint
programs or specific projects
designated in the program of
"echnical Assistance and Eocon-
omic Aid to Haiti,

Port au Prince, dune 26, 1962.

of your Movado “ Firmament” watch

The Movado sapphire crystal
gleams with a rare brilliance.

only by that of the diamond.

precision thrice triumphant
in three years (at the official

    
    
 

 

 

   
    
  
 
 
    
   

Ref 2654,

"The oval look",
gold 18 ct,
gold figure. dia}

 

a ,

Ref. 148,
miniature move-
ment, gold 18 ct.,
gold figure dial

ONE SALE AT MAISON ORIENTALE |
AND LITTLE BUROPE

 

EVERY SUNDAY NIGHT

DANCE ON tHE OOH ‘GARDENS.

Hotel Choucoune |

MICHEL DESGROTTES MUSIC
FREE ENTRANCE

 

 

 
eck f 16

  

“FIVE HAITIAN COAST GUARD
OFFICERS TRAINING IN U.S.

 

-PORT-AU-PRINCE.—Five Haitian Coast Guard officers attend-
ing special training courses in the United States are expected to

- yveturn this week.

Sponsored by the U.S. Naval Mission to Haiti the five officers
underwent special training in aids to navigation, machinery, elec
tronics, damage control and miscellaneous other subjects durin,;

a IT-week course at Yorktown, Virginia.

The Haitian officers are Serge Charles, Wilson Desir, Fritz Ger-
main, Serge Jean-Baptiste, and Wilson Jean-Baptiste.

 

 

: Haitian Coast Guard officers attentively listen to a lecture on
anchoring procedures during their 17-week training course at York-
wn, Virginia. From right fo left the Haitian officers are Wilson
Jean-Baptiste, Serge Jean-Baptiste and Fritz Germain.

  

 

 

 

     
  

RPP FPFP PSH:

 

POI BSGESG
3 fo»

Agents: USINE A GLACE NATIONAEE, S. A..
Bort au Prince, Haiti — W.1.

      
 

CUM A br 1 SUNY?

BOEING ET CARAVELLE. .. Les 2 MEILLEURS «JETS» SUR LE PLUS GRAND RESEAU DU MONDE

a

“(Continued from page 2)
Katherine Dunham, the Great
‘Xatherine who has. revealed the
vame of Haiti all over the world
through her dances will leave us
this week after making hei Ha-
yitation Leclerc here the Num-
ber One tourist attraction of the
‘Island. Katherine just came
yack from a talents safari in
\frica and was rewarded with
1 beautiful honey skin artist,
Odile Fatoum, a ballet dancer.
‘er taught technics added to ail
er God given talents*in Morro
‘dn dances make her quite a
zood member of the new cast
that Katherine is going to take
with her to Hollywood for re-
hearsal in (view of her grand
‘tour around the world. »
Katherine, her pretty daughter
Marie Christine and Lois Rollins
who made a name to herself
here and the young and ‘“‘ravis-
sante’ Morrocan artist Oji'e
Watoum and many others wil
‘vy to the U.S. soon.
Stunning Barabara Wynns, a
young home economist from
Miami stopped here Monday’ in

 

U.S. Ate Force Ban
To March Here

Port au Prince—A _ 35-piece
U.S. Air Force band is schedul-
ed to arrive here Monday mor-
ning July 9 to participate in the
centenniz! celebratons of Haiti-
an-American d'plomatic relations.

The 776th Air Force Band from
Albrook Air Force Base, Pana-
na will begin their four-day
program shortly after arrival
Thursday morning with a deta-
chment scheduled to play taps
at the Dessalines-Petion Ma‘'so-
leum.

Highlight of their stay will be
1 parade from the American
Embassy Tuesday afternoon at
4 p.m. to the Place des Hero
de l’Independance where a pub
‘ic, outdoor concert will begin a’
5 p.m. Later the same evening
, 6-piece jazz combo from the
troup will present a jazz con-
cert at the MHaitian-American
Institute, the first half cf the
program however, will be per
formed by the Choeur Simid>r.
The band will complete its vi-
«a with a dance program at th:
Araerican Embassy _ residenc:
July 12th climaxing severa
weeks of cultural manifestations
commemorating the. 100th anni-
rersary of the Recognition o

iti by the U.S.

- Also included. in the Air Force
‘oup’s plans is a television a
‘arance by their choir Monda

ning July 9th, at 6:30 p.m.

UR LEAVE “FOR , CARACAS
YRANTED “SAFE CONDUCT”
Roland Rigaud, Didier Maison-
euve his wife Maryse and their
sar old infant left last:
Saturday for Caracas after hav-
= been granted “‘safe conduct’

) eave the country,

   
  

 

  

   

SUNDAY JULY Ist, 1962

 
  

CONSULTEZ
VOTRE AGENT
DE VOYAGE

 
 

 

In Haiti This Week

comrpuny with Perthe Jewel Hemmings and Anna Piper, also two.
ome economists for the Fla Power and Light Co, They are guests.
at Villa Creole. Ann Piper is pele. tutored by newsman Robert
Paris,

“Pierre (Tarzan). d’Adesky and his partners the Shindlers are
still working on converting Kyona Beach into a fantastic “ Hotell
on the Beach” with varied commodities and attractions. The party
given at Kyona last Saturday was the first of a series which will
take place this summer in Kyona Beach, The Ambassador of the
Unted States, Mr. Raymond Thurston and many other diplomats
and Haitian officials were in the attendance.

“#Vfuriel’ Shindler who is as famous here as Elsa Maxwell in
‘he U.S. for her lavish parties will celebrate her birthday again —
- July 4, the day the U.S. was born to Independence. This will
be a double celebration which as usual will make attendants wall —
on their head. decorator will certainly
‘ecorate the El Rancho for the occasion. What Ben Shindler will
preview to this celebration must be kept secret?

— The talented Interior

do eee asa
. Charles F. Spalding from New York is back again here
Albert: W. White and
a joyful party with

in company with his young ‘colleague Dr.
‘ever had it so good. They are making here
“Millie White of La Belle Creole in the Sky. They are jong tinie

guests at the Grand Hotel Oloffson.

**Nancy M. Bell, a designer fee Philadelphia ena Diane J.-
“eaman, a secretary came back here last week. They are home
ngain at the Hotel Oloffson, and are learning the tricky steps of
‘he “Cadence Rampa’’ of: Weber. Sicot and the ‘‘Compas Direct’
‘of Nemours Jean-Baptiste... Mrs Sarah Kaminsky whose husband ©
visited Haiti six weeks ago is here to withess the charms the New
York Attorney Carl Kaminsky described to her.. Sarah who is
originally from Canada is working in New York as an Insurance,
secretary for The Goldman Co. an Insurance company: She si
also guest at the Oloffson.

***Tonald Samuel Marder,
phia and his beautiful wife Bobbie Lois, married on June 24th
arrived here Monday on their honeymoon trip... Mr. Nicolas Vla-
hos, an Accountant from New York and his charming wife Sophie,
an eye catching dancer, are current guests at the El Rancho,

a prominent architect from Philadel-

Sophie works for the Knickerbocker. Travel Agency.

***“ Jolie’ brunette Carol Blinder, newly graduated in political.
sciences and international relations from the University of Michi-
gan in Ann Harbor after a year in Sorbonne, Paris where she >
tudied Frerich and Sciences. Po is visiting here this week in com-
jany with: blonde Miss Linda Greenstein a graduate in social stu- »
lies. Carol Blinder who is from Chicago will go to John Hopkins
. Washington, D.C. next September to enlarge her exeperience
1 political sciences and international relations.

Carol and Linda are two keen exponents of the Haitian meringue.

 

Cayes Fetes Centenarian Mrs. Ultima Desrosiers

 

‘One hundred-year-old Mrs. Desrosiers, formerly Ultima Castel, at
home giving her descendants a little advice on growing old.

 
